---
published: true
organization_id: '2016094'
year_submitted: 2014
category: live
body_class: lime
project_id: '4102123'
title: Open Grove
project_summary: >-
  Open Grove harnesses the institutional power of congregations by repurposing
  fallow land into orchards.
project_image: >-
  http://maker.good.is/s3/maker%252Fattachments%252Fproject_photos%252Fimages%252F21247%252Fdisplay%252F271142_126746457409396_123727814377927_212920_3369410_n.jpg=c570x385
project_video: ''
project_areas:
  - CENTRAL LA
  - EAST LA
  - SOUTH LA
  - SGV
  - SFV
  - SOUTH BAY
  - WESTSIDE
maker_answers:
  achievable_goal: "We are two organizations with strong and engaged community networks. We have three shovel-ready sites waiting for project implementation. Netiya and Seeds of Hope both possess proven track records with many combined years of experience working in partnership with communities both installing and sustaining gardens and orchards. This is evidence of our ability to continue to build out a successful and sustainable garden program that is fully integrated into the conventions of the institution.\r\nThe viability of our 2050 vision will be demonstrated within the next year by taking on the following measurables:\r\n\r\n1) Develop three pilot orchard projects at three faith-based institutions representing geographic, religious, socioeconomic, and land-use diversity. We will aim to build community ownership at the same time we build the gardens. One will be an interfaith food pantry that feeds over 160,000 people a year. Combined with the other two gardens, we estimate reaching an additional 500 families with fresh produce. We plan to complete the three empowering educational and experiential garden builds within the community and have the three institutions coordinate their own sustainable garden maintenance plans. This will serve as a replicable model that can be expanded upon in 2015-2016.\r\n\r\n2) Initiate large-scale interfaith food justice collaboration through institutional engagement by convening a one-day, interfaith food awareness summit targeted toward religious and lay leaders across institutions, building upon the Seeds of Hope conference that was held in May 2014. This conference will focus on shmita - the religious commandment of leaving the land fallow every seven years (from September 2014-2015). We’ll hold an interfaith discussion likely in May 2015 about how to improve upon the sustainability of our food growing operations so the recipients of the food relief become more empowered - and focus on food sovereignty rather than furthering hand outs.\r\n\r\n3) Convene an expanded “Interfaith Council” to meet twice a year to collaborate and support ongoing food production efforts, building upon Netiya’s successful model Council. Hold meetings sharing best practices on food procurement and food security with professional facilitation.\r\n\r\n4) Develop and distribute an “Interfaith Resource Guide” to give tools to our network institutions to plant and maintain orchards on their properties and contribute the produce to grow community food security."
  one_sentence_org: >-
    Netiya advances institutional collaboration around food procurement and food
    relief to grow community food security.
  implement: "The collaboration of Netiya and Seeds of Hope through Open Grove involves engaging the untapped power of our faith-based institutions around food justice. As a combined network of close to 250 institutions, we start with accessing willing partners that can offer acreage, resources, and volunteers from our institutions. We build out a collaborative network wherein Open Grove offers institutions with deeply rooted and, in many cases, shared ethics, an opportunity to become powerfully aligned with one another around food justice in LA. \r\n\r\nThe viability of our 2050 vision will be demonstrated within the next year by taking on the following measurables:\r\n\r\n1) Develop three pilot orchard projects at three faith-based institutions representing geographic, religious, socioeconomic, and land-use diversity. Complete experiential and educational orchard installs and have the three institutions coordinating their own sustainable garden maintenance plans.\r\n\r\n2) Initiate large-scale interfaith food justice collaboration through institutional engagement by convening a one-day, interfaith food awareness summit targeted toward religious and lay leaders across institutions, building upon the Seeds of Hope conference that was held in May 2014. This conference will focus on shmita - the religious commandment of leaving the land fallow every seven years (from September 2014-2015). We’ll hold interfaith discussions about how to improve upon our food growing operations so the recipients of the food relief become more empowered - and focus on food sovereignty rather than furthering hand outs.\r\n\r\n3) Convene an “Interfaith Council” that meets twice a year to collaborate and support ongoing food production efforts, building upon Netiya’s successful model Council. Hold meetings sharing best practices on food procurement and food security with interfaith clergy and lay leadership.\r\n\r\n4) Develop and distribute a “Your Congregation's Sustainable, Water-Wise Orchard Resource Guide.” Perhaps it will have a shorter title! The guide will give tools to our network institutions to plant and maintain orchards on their properties and contribute the produce to grow community food security.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  impact_live: "Converting faith-based institutions’ unused land into productive green space will expand urban green areas and bring about related environmental benefits. These include temperature reduction, energy conservation, fewer smog and red alert days, improved water quality, and sequestering of greenhouse gases. In particular, there is an acute awareness of the need for more green space in low-income urban environments. In this way, Open Grove’s approach can have a particularly powerful impact on the health of these communities, as religious institutions are very strong players and can become a starting point for cultivating new and improved access to green spaces. \r\n\r\nOpen Grove’s other benefits result from shifting towards local sustainable food systems, as a response to food safety and food access issues, as well as national epidemics of hunger and obesity. The focus on planting urban orchards is intentional, as we assert that urban orchards can have a much more significant effect on the long-term food system than annual vegetable gardens. Once established and producing, orchards can produce food for decades, and, in the case of nut trees, can produce healthy food with high caloric value. Orchards are also significantly easier to maintain once established, need far less material (compost, mulch, plastic irrigation supplies), water, and labor than annual gardens, and many orchards will produce food even if they are left alone for years. And Open Grove will work with gleaning networks in LA that already work on private and public orchards to provide food to local pantries."
  who_benefit: "Open Grove recognizes its place in a much larger urban sustainability movement in Los Angeles that provides environmental, economic, and societal benefits to Angelenos. By funding two networks to collaborate on installing Urban Orchards on institutional land, this project will effectively free up more unused land to increase food production. It will also do two vital things: 1) it will enhance the food justice collaboration between secular and religious sectors and 2) it will give voice to the religious and spiritual people / institutions in LA that have not yet been harnessed and serve to literally and figuratively “feed” this growing food movement. Specifically, Open Grove is part of the much larger urban greening, local food production, and food justice movements. By engaging powerful faith-based allies across the city in planting urban orchards, Open Grove will amplify the social and environmental benefits of tree planting for food, creating positive effects that will last for decades. \r\nConverting faith-based institutions’ unused land into productive green space will expand urban green areas and bring about related environmental benefits. These include temperature reduction, energy conservation, fewer smog and red alert days, improved water quality, and sequestering of greenhouse gases. In particular, there is an acute awareness of the need for more green space in low-income urban environments. In this way, Open Grove’s approach can have a particularly powerful impact on the health of these communities, as religious institutions are very strong players and can become a starting point for cultivating new and improved access to green spaces. \r\nOpen Grove’s other benefits result from shifting towards local sustainable food systems, as a response to food safety and food access issues, as well as national epidemics of hunger and obesity. The focus on planting urban orchards is intentional, as we assert that urban orchards can have a much more significant effect on the long-term food system than annual vegetable gardens. Once established and producing, orchards can produce food for decades, and, in the case of nut trees, can produce healthy food with high caloric value. Orchards are also significantly easier to maintain once established, need far less material (compost, mulch, plastic irrigation supplies), water, and labor than annual gardens, and many orchards will produce food even if they are left alone for years. "
  partners_collaboration: "Specific partners that have been identified are the Metropolitan Water District, Greywater Corps, The River Project, LA Community Garden Council, New Horizon Muslim School in Pasadena, the New Community Jewish High School, Temple Beth Hillel, the North Hollywood Interfaith Food Pantry, the Unitarian Universalist Church, Temple Beth Ohr, All Saints Episcopal Church, Temple Beth Israel of Highland Park and Eagle Rock, the Prince of Peace Episcopal Church and the West Valley Food Pantry as a demonstration orchard and a model of the direct orchard-to-pantry model. \r\n\r\nSome partners do advocacy, some provide funding, others provide land, and still others find the materials needed to install the orchards.\r\n\r\nWe have very specific membership and partnership terms for all collaborations. We work towards a model of empowerment and reciprocity. We are happy to forward a PDF with our terms for your perusal. \r\n\r\nPotential partners may come from the public or private sector, including corporations, academia, water agencies, other food and environmental nonprofits, and workforce development agencies. We would specifically expect to continue to engage our network partner institutions, UC Master Gardener, Master Composter, and Master Food Preserver volunteers, Brown Mountain CSA, Social Justice Learning Institute, Food Forward, Tree People, the Million Trees Initiative, the Yale University Urban Resources Initiative, SOVA and the NoHo interfaith food pantry. We will also bring in community organizations and youth groups to help start up and manage the orchards in their local neighborhoods, potentially establishing new community hubs in areas with limited access to fresh food.\r\n\r\nThe collaboration with Seeds of Hope is confirmed - this is Netiya main partner. The food justice ministry of the Episcopal Diocese of LA established to repurpose church property and facilities for the production and distribution of food in underserved communities across the six-county diocese. The program currently grows food at nearly 100 locations and operates 60 food pantries and 50 feeding programs as well as providing nutrition and fitness education. Executive Director, Tim Alderson, came to Seeds of Hope from a lifetime in agriculture. He was the founder and former CEO of AgriGator, Inc., a multinational soil amendment company and the founding chairman of the California School Garden Network, a statewide network of public and private sector organizations united in support of school gardens.\r\n"
  evaluate: "Number of institutions. Our goal is to have 500 faith-based institutions involved by 2050 with an average of ten trees planted at each participating congregation's property.\r\n\r\nGeographic distribution. Our goal is to have a practical, positive and measurable impact on the health of individuals and the environment throughout every region in the county. We will quantify the geographic distribution of our orchards with particular interest in areas of greater food insecurity and environmental stresses.\r\n\r\nDemographic diversity. We aim to involve Angelenos  of every cultural, ethnic, and socioeconomic  background. We will quantify success by comparing our participants with the overall diversity of Los Angeles.\r\n\r\nAcreage converted. Each orchard will be measured and added to the total to identify whether we will meet or exceed our goal of converting 50 acres to open space.\r\n\r\nTrees planted. Our goal is to plant 5,000 fruit and nut trees by 2050. Trees planted will be inventoried using GPS coordinates and tracked carefully for their positive impacts on the environment and local food production.\r\n\r\nPeople served. Produce from our orchards will be distributed to neighbors in need through our volunteer network, and local food pantries. The amount of fruit or nuts distributed to each recipient will be recorded to track how many people are served.\r\n\r\nPollutants removed from the air. Each tree has the potential to remove approximately 50 pounds per year of CO2 from the atmosphere. This could amount to over 4,500 tons of CO2 removed from our air by 2050. In partnership with the Urban Resources Initiative at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, using their technology we will precisely measure the total quantity of pollutants each tree removes from the surrounding air.\r\n\r\nWater saved. Before converting a property to orchard production, we will record the water consumption for its prior use. After conversion, water usage will be documented to determine water savings in this drought.\r\n\r\nVolunteers participating. Community involvement is a key determinant of the sustainability. We will quantify the number of congregations and participants over time and the average length of personal engagement. We will also look for indicators to predict a person’s willingness or resistance to participation and motivators for long-term involvement.\r\n\r\nAdditional, somewhat less quantifiable, impacts such as stormwater runoff and decreases in temperature will also be observed."
  two_lessons: "“There are, it seems, two muses: the Muse of Inspiration, who gives us inarticulate visions and desires, and the Muse of Realization, who returns again and again to say \"It is yet more difficult than you thought.\" \r\n― Wendell Berry\r\n\r\n1) Our existing congregational gardens after three years are not producing high yields, they do however, have high educational value for the congregations. We've learned there are more effective ways of using land.\r\n\r\n2) Annual gardening can also prove extremely humbling and very frustrating for volunteer gardeners that have irregular schedules and competing priorities. We've learned that orchard maintenance is much more suitable and rewarding for our congregants. They feel more connected to the program when there is more productive source for their labors.\r\n\r\nTo this end, we have shifted to planting high yield nut and fruit trees and offering educational programming to supplement fruit tree care.\r\n\r\nWe've also learned from Wendell Berry, \r\n\"Put your faith in the two inches of humus\r\nthat will build under the trees\r\nevery thousand years.\"\r\n\r\nWe know intimately the successes and failures of our attempts to influence nature and will continue to share this concept time and again with our communities. Plants thrive or wither despite our willful application of effort. \r\n\r\nRemembering this lesson, that of keeping at it anyway, despite the setbacks and course corrections, has helped us continue. We believe this reframing will be a win-win: more productive yields for recipients of emergency food relief will tend to galvanize the congregations more over time, and that in turn will keep the congregant volunteers more connected to sustaining their efforts over time."
  more_detail: "Mosques, synagogues and churches are our greatest source of ready-to-repurpose open spaces in the city. We harness the institutional power of congregations by repurposing fallow land into orchards. Project Open Grove transforms the urban landscape with a simple idea rooted in ancient texts: tithing harvests. Tithing is the act of donating 10% of one’s resources to address the needs of the under-resourced within and around our communities.\r\n"
  major_challenges: "\r\nOne major barrier I foresee could involve the timeframe. In several cases our network members have been given green lights from their administration to launch garden installs, only to have a committee within their institution review the plans and request a delay and more than once the delay has been many months. Establishing a firm time frame to meet the needs of this grant may make sense to all our project partners at the outset and in reality may prove difficult to fulfill. The success of Open Grove depends on timely implementation on the part of our institutional collaborators - which cannot always operate within tightly scheduled parameters!\r\nOur second major barrier is the drought. We intend to plant orchards with significant amounts of mulch and compost, as well as berms and swayles to sink and store as much groundwater as possible for the trees. Open Grove will source 2 year-old trees and they will need watering in their first years in order to survive the drought. If the drought intensifies, we will meet the expected challenges with implementation by amplifying our drought-tolerant and water-wise educational series in partnership with the Metropolitan Water District and other community partners to drive strong content through the congregations.\r\n\r\nOur water-wise educational component is critical for the longevity of Open Grove sites. Our proven curriculum ensures that community partners are equipped and able to maintain these orchards as their own."
  Which area(s) of LA does your project benefit?:
    - Central LA
    - East LA
    - South LA
    - San Fernando Valley
    - Westside
  Does your project impact Los Angeles County?: 'No'
  How will your project impact the LA2050 “Live” metrics?:
    - Access to healthy food
    - Exposure to air toxins
    - Number of households below the self-sufficiency standard
    - Percent of imported water
    - Percentage of LA communities that are resilient (Dream Metric)
    - Percentage of tree canopy cover (Dream Metric)
  Please describe yourself: Collaboration (partners are signed up and ready to hit the ground running!)
  What resources does your project need?:
    - Network/relationship support
    - Money (financial capital)
    - Publicity/awareness (social capital)
    - Quality improvement research
  impact_metrics: "By 2050 we estimate that Open Grove will:\r\n\r\n*Create 50 acres of new open/green space that is fertile and productive land. Previously neglected, now helping to increase property values in neighborhoods around the city \r\n\r\n*Improve community health, particularly among the “food insecure” by adding over 23 million servings of fresh fruits and nuts to local food pantries.\r\n\r\n*Remove 4,500 tons of CO2 from the atmosphere\r\n\r\n*Reduce stormwater run-off by 185 million gallons\r\n\r\n*Conserve 2.3 billion gallons of water (by converting turf and ornamentals to trees)\r\n\r\n*Improve LA’s water quality by capturing and slowing water runoff at our institutions so it percolates into underground aquifers\r\n\r\n*Improve the quality of life in our communities by developing alternative food access in and around our geographically-diverse congregations, decreasing noise, air pollution, and temperatures, while increasing open space and property values.\r\n\r\n*It is hoped that Open Grove will also help reduce medical costs associated with obesity, diabetes, and smog-related health issues as community members spend more time outdoors doing physical activity.\r\n\r\n*Fifty acres of new orchards in LA would significantly increase the percentage of tree canopy cover and likely reduce the ambient heat in parts of the city.\r\n\r\n*In addition the orchards will create hubs for educational programming, leadership building, as well as opportunities to create continuous sources for healthy, local food that can be donated or used within the community\r\n\r\n\r\n"
Which area(s) of LA does your project benefit? Other (elaborate): >-
  LA is poised to be a national environmental leader after adopting the
  country's most far-reaching waste and recycling overhaul —the Zero Waste LA
  Franchise. LAANE and the Don’t Waste LA Coalition led the campaign to adopt
  this system, approved in April 2014. The new system calls for LA to divert 90%
  of waste from landfills and requires recycling for all customers. As part of
  meeting this ambitious diversion goal, waste haulers are required to submit an
  organic waste collection plan for all multifamily and commercial customers, as
  food scraps and yard trimmings make up a third of what is sent to landfills.
  However, the region currently lacks the capacity to process all of our organic
  waste, creating an opportunity for innovation and investment. Given the
  benefits of converting organic waste to compost, our project will lay the
  groundwork for LA to take advantage of this opportunity.
   
   We will create a development plan to spur organics processing at various scales—through the City with the potential construction of public organics facilities, in partnership with responsible waste haulers committed to expanding this sector, and community-based entrepreneurs. With the City, this would entail developing a market analysis for the financing and construction of an anaerobic digester, a sustainable technology that processes food waste into compost and biogas. We will conduct research on types of anaerobic digestion including case studies from the U.S. and Europe, financing models, and public/private partnerships. Based on our research, we will support implementation of a range of infrastructure and entrepreneurial opportunities and will advocate for enabling policies at the City level.
   
   We will identify funding and potential sites for composting operations, including working with CalRecycle on grants for smaller-scale operations. To facilitate private sector opportunities, we will study the regulatory framework and identify necessary policy interventions.
   
   Partnering with the LA Food Policy Council, we will explore local entrepreneurial opportunities. This includes pilot projects like neighborhood-based composting for community gardens; programs to ensure the cleanest and safest compost streams; partnerships with large food waste generators such as LAUSD and restaurants, and the potential for worker cooperatives.
What is your idea/project in more detail?: >-
  LA businesses and residents send about 1.2 million tons of food scraps and
  yard waste to landfills each year. Such compostable “organic” material forms
  over 1/3 of the City’s landfill waste. 
   
   When food decomposes in landfills, it emits methane, one of the most significant contributors to climate change. The biogas created from anaerobic digestion of food scraps will help LA move towards renewable energy and off carbon-intensive energy sources. 
   
   While local farming is strong, the three-year drought, soil erosion and poor soil quality have big impacts on agriculture and the environment which compost can help address. 
   
   Over 45% of LA families are unemployed or make below the threshold for self-sufficiency, and 26% of LA households are without health coverage. Composting creates twice the jobs t of landfilling and an estimated 2,500 jobs could be created in this field. By ensuring they are quality jobs with benefits, this new industry will help lift hardworking families to self-sufficiency. 
   
   We have an opportunity to transform our food scraps into a valuable resource for communities, the economy, and the environment. Developing the necessary infrastructure for processing organics and converting it to clean, renewable energy and fertilizer benefits LA. Given the quantity of organic waste generated by LA’s restaurants, markets, businesses and homes, this is potentially a huge scale enterprise with multiple benefits for LA. LA has over 8,000 restaurants, 70% of whose waste is food scraps which could be turned into valuable commodities. 
   
   LA will be a healthier place without organic waste in landfills, emitting harmful emissions and using scarce land resources. Food is healthier and safer when grown using soil enriched by compost and farms need less water, fertilizers, and pesticides. The biogas produced from anaerobic digestion of food waste will be a stable form of renewable energy from reliable technologies. Our plans will ensure that workers at the new facilities have quality jobs including family health benefits. The city’s economy will be healthier with this growing industry contributing to economic activity and creating entrepreneurial opportunities.
   
   By 2050, if the plan is fully implemented, all organic waste will be treated at anaerobic digester facilities or other composting operations, and landfills will be a historic phenomenon. Thousands of LA families will have better jobs, and the air and water will be cleaner.
What will you do to implement this idea/project?: >-
  This project has the potential to benefit everyone in the region by tackling a
  critical environmental and infrastructure problem. By reducing air and water
  pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, this project will benefit the health
  of the region’s inhabitants. By creating opportunities for new jobs and new
  businesses, the project will benefit LA’s working families and local economy.
  By providing valuable healthy compost to urban farmers, the project will help
  them improve local food production, reducing their need for water and
  fertilizers that cause water pollution. 
   
   The project will create opportunities for small-scale entrepreneurs and responsible waste haulers who can be part of the comprehensive plan required for processing organics. Private investors who are willing to forgo quick returns will have opportunities for innovative public/private partnerships with the City to finance the construction of an anaerobic digester. 
   
   The project will benefit communities throughout Los Angeles, especially those disproportionately affected by unemployment, concentrated poverty and lack of healthy food access, based on data from the American Community Survey and CA Employment Development Department (EDD). Composting efforts including anaerobic digestion create more than double the number of jobs as disposal. That means creating thousands of jobs—careers that will sustain families. The range of employment opportunities will extend from entry-level positions to highly specialized science, engineering, and technical careers. A complementary City policy for the new facilities in the waste industry can incentivize job quality and priority for hiring local residents, providing training, and including individuals with barriers to employment.
   
   The project will benefit everyone who lives or works in LA by providing cheaper energy that is less polluting and renewable. Biofuels generated through a city-owned facility can provide a renewable source of energy to power homes and businesses and fuel the city’s fleet. The entire region will benefit from cleaner air due to the reduction in methane emissions from diverting food waste away from landfills.
   
   Based on our work over the last several years on the Don’t Waste LA campaign, communities affected by the concentration of waste and recycling facilities such as the Northeast San Fernando Valley and East LA, will be areas where our outreach will be very targeted and deliberate.
How will your idea/project help make LA the best place to connect today? In LA2050?: >-
  To build support for expanding composting, developing anaerobic digestion, and
  to contribute to our research and planning, we are building a broad and
  diverse working group of organizations and individuals concerned with food
  waste disposal, healthy locally grown food, and creating new industries for
  local workers. 
   
   Our lead confirmed partner is the LA Food Policy Council (LAFPC), which has a network of over 600 food organizations. Their 100 urban agriculture organizations include experts, practitioners, and composting entrepreneurs. It brings its policy and expertise to the DWLA Coalition and took the lead in drafting language that was adopted promoting an ambitious organics program for the City’s requirements of waste haulers in the Zero Waste LA System. LAFPC advocates for healthy food access policies and coordinates projects such as market makeovers, legalizing street vending, and parkway gardens.
   
   We have had conversations with the Mayor’s Office and the Bureau of Sanitation on anaerobic digestion and will be collaborating with other City officials and departments as the project moves forward. We are working with Councilmember Koretz’ office to identify policies that could support the expansion of composting. We hope to involve In the Public Interest for advice and assistance regarding financing that assures accountability and good jobs as the city explores forms of public-private partnerships to finance and build an anaerobic digester.
   
   We are working with architect Professor Curt Gambetta, who focuses on waste and recycling infrastructure issues and has collaborated with students to design a neighborhood-scale compost network. We worked with him co-writing a broadsheet on waste and recycling facilities’ impacts and design, and plan to continue collaborating in future.
   
   We are working with Antioch Professor Gilda Haas to explore opportunities for co-operative enterprises in the waste and recycling industry, focusing on possibilities in the organics waste stream. Through this collaboration, we will be able to identify and develop the necessary training for compost-related jobs. 
   
   The Sierra Club, Angeles Chapter, was a founding member of the Don’t Waste LA Coalition and is a long-time advocate for increasing composting through its Organics Project. In addition to expertise, the chapter has over 40,000 members who can help inform and support new infrastructure and spread the word.
Whom will your project benefit? Please be specific.: ''
cached_project_image: >-
  https://archive-assets.la2050.org/images/2014/open-grove/maker.good.is/s3/maker%252Fattachments%252Fproject_photos%252Fimages%252F21247%252Fdisplay%252F271142_126746457409396_123727814377927_212920_3369410_n.jpg=c570x385.jpg
maker_image_id: '21247'
maker_image_file_name: 271142_126746457409396_123727814377927_212920_3369410_n.jpg

---
