---
published: true
organization_id: '2015177'
year_submitted: 2014
category: connect
body_class: tangerine
project_id: '4102189'
title: SeePolitical - Making Ballot Propositions Easy to Understand
project_summary: >-
  SeePolitical explains the confusing language for each ballot proposition in
  less than two minutes with our engaging and unbiased videos.
project_image: 'https://img.youtube.com/vi/XBMMD3_5s30/maxresdefault.jpg'
project_video: 'https://www.youtube.com/embed/XBMMD3_5s30'
project_areas:
  - CENTRAL LA
  - EAST LA
  - SOUTH LA
  - SGV
  - SFV
  - SOUTH BAY
  - WESTSIDE
  - LA COUNTY
maker_answers:
  metrics_connect_volunteerism: '0'
  city_state: 'Los Angeles, CA'
  org_website: www.SeePolitical.com
  org_twitter: '@SeePolitical'
  org_facebook: www.facebook.com/SeePolitical
  org_instagram: ''
  org_mailingaddress: '133 W. Channel Road #1, Santa Monica CA 90402'
  org_ein: '452742032'
  org_nonprofit: '1'
  org_forprofit: '0'
  org_government: '0'
  org_individual: '0'
  describe_soloactor: '0'
  describe_proposedcollaboration: '0'
  describe_collaboration: '1'
  describe_organization: >-
    SeePolitical empowers voters with knowledge by providing accurate
    information about major public policy issues.
  one_sentence_project: >-
    SeePolitical explains the confusing language for each ballot proposition in
    less than two minutes with our engaging and unbiased videos.
  describe_idea: >-
    @SeePolitical strives to #makepropsclear w cool vids & breakdown barriers of
    entry to the political process for everyone in LA!
  impact_LA_County: '1'
  region_county: '0'
  population_county: '0'
  'no': '0'
  area_centralLA: '1'
  area_eastLA: '1'
  area_southLA: '1'
  area_sangabrielvalley: '1'
  area_sanfernandovalley: '1'
  area_southbay: '1'
  area_westside: '1'
  'area_other:': '0'
  area_other_blank: ''
  more_detail: "SeePolitical.com is an interactive website, widget and mobile app providing objective, easily understood information about ballot propositions for all Angelenos. Trying to understand the complex language found on most ballots is frustrating and often results in uninformed voters approving unintended consequences. In the case for our region, most voters are not even participating. The June 2014 primary turned out an alarmingly record-low number of voters in Los Angeles County. \r\n\r\nSeePolitical breaks the mold by offering unbiased entertaining educational content that informs and empowers voters in English and in Spanish. "
  implement: "SeePolitical is nonprofit organization offering an unprecedented service: Concise, unbiased, entertaining information on ballot measures, which we all crave. \r\n\r\nLos Angeles is the perfect place for SeePolitical to start educating voters. Voters in this city are confronted multiple times a year with major public policy issues with huge social implications and billions of dollars at stake. SeePolitical’s initial goal is to educate and inform Angelenos about the implications of each statewide ballot measure.  \r\n\r\nAfter a successful trial in Los Angeles, SeePolitical will begin to cover ballot props in other cities and states. SeePolitical has the potential to be the go-to source for voter education and will quickly surpass outdated text heavy formats currently used to inform the public.\r\n\r\nWe have already built an incredible team in Los Angeles and tested the concept, now it’s time to execute:\r\n1)\tSeePolitical and the League of Women Voters have teamed up to conduct expert policy research & analysis for each ballot proposition, ensuring a fair and balanced explanation for both the Yes and No side.\r\n2)\tOur Emmy-award winning studio, Imaginary Forces, located in LA translates this research into informative, engaging videos explaining each ballot prop less than 2 minutes.\r\n3)\tSeePolitical’s videos will be distributed to partner organizations and media outlets across LA County for mass distribution. \r\n4)\tVoters can watch our videos on the web or from any mobile device, and save their voting preferences on SeePolitical’s mobile app which they can use as their personal cheat sheet on Election Day!\r\n5)\tSeePolitical will have unprecedented real-time polling data and insights to localized and aggregate voter behavior and trends.\r\n\t\r\nSeePolitical’s characters clarify what a YES vote entails and what a NO vote entails for each proposition during a 60-90 second animated, audio cartoon clip. Each viewer can save his/her choice by clicking on the YES, NO, or MAYBE button at the bottom of the screen. The viewer then has the option to print or save their selections for easy reference that will be emailed and/or texted to them when it is time to vote.\r\n"
  impact_connect: "SeePolitical will literally connect LA residents to the issues we are expected to vote on.  SeePolitical strives to increase understanding of major public policy issues by reaching target demographics in their environments with engaging, interactive and entertaining content.\r\n\r\nOur nonprofit organization has developed a novel method to address a major social problem in our city - voter confusion and voter apathy - which are inherently linked. After proving our concept this year in Los Angeles, SeePolitical will provide a platform for all Angelenos to discuss and organize around political issues.\r\n\r\nSeePolitical can provide an innovative approach to explaining ballot measures that surpasses the status quo in impact and cost. \r\n\r\nSeePolitical’s integrity is established with completely unbiased and objective explanations. We utilize the Attorney General and Secretary of State’s public voter guide as our primary source of analysis. The popularity of SeePolitical will lie in our ability to convey this information to Angelenos through dynamic animation. The success of SeePolitical lies in our ability to engage potential voters in their online environments, provide cutting edge easy to use tools for understanding and make them care enough to share. The outcome will be a well-informed voting public in this city with a clear understanding of each proposition we encounter in the voting booth.  SeePolitical’s bottom line is to increase overall voter turnout at each election and connect Angelenos to some of the most important issues we face as a city and region.  \r\n\r\nSeePolitical will engage users in their social environments through custom built social media and mobile applications giving them the ability to interact with each other and share. For instance, your friend in Silver Lake took a SeePolitical poll on Facebook and another one in Boyle Heights shared their thoughts and video via our iPhone application. Our mobile rich media widgets will inform target audiences by offering value added content on partner websites. \r\n\r\nLong term plans include building a walled garden social network for voters in our city to align and organize around issues dear to them, archiving ballot measures and voter behaviors, becoming a valuable source of educational information for students involved with the formulation of public policy and expanding the scope to a national scale. "
  who_benefit: "SeePolitical will truly benefit everyone in LA. Residents who feel it is their civic duty to vote but don’t want to spend too much time learning about propositions will be able to enjoy SeePolitical’s entertaining and informative content.  New U.S. citizens who don’t read English well enough to truly understand the legal jargon on each ballot will have an opportunity to watch and listen to SeePolitical’s explanations in their native tongue.  The seasoned voter will also enjoy a new and refreshing take on explaining policy issues, in addition to access to links to outside content that can offer more in-depth explanations. Teachers in our classrooms will finally have a tool to help their students learn about the complex issues that their parents are voting on as well as the very process that they too will be expected to participate in as adult citizens.  When it comes down to it, everyone in our great city will benefit from SeePolitical’s content and voter tool.\r\n\r\nThe organization was started with a goal and a dream four years ago. To date, we have created an ecosystem of partnerships, distribution channels and affiliations to political organizations that led to our beta launch in Summer and Fall 2012 elections.  Since 2012 we have secured major partnerships with LA’s own Emmy Award winning animation studio, Imaginary Forces, and the USC's Unruh Institute of Politics (their students assist in our policy analysis research) as well as the Otis College of Art and Design near LAX. \r\n\r\nWe intend to impact as much of the population as possible in future elections, but do have some specific segments we are focusing on, such as: African American, Latino and Asian populations; young voters; low-income voters; immigrants; and as part of our dedication to education a subcategory would be students not old enough to vote. \r\n\r\nThere are persistent gaps in voter turnout by income and educational attainment. Percentage of eligible youth vote turnout (18-29 years old) is also at a historic low lending to a “political lag” by which the public policies adopted don’t reflect the needs of the citizenry, because most aren’t participating. \r\n\r\nSeePolitical will offer teachers in the classroom a free and easy to use tool to teach their students about the major public policy issues of the day, as well as issues from the past.  We can offer a unique and entertaining format to get kids in LAUSD and surrounding school districts interested and involved in the democratic process.\r\n"
  collaboration: "Confirmed Partners include: \r\nCalifornia League of Women Voters – “The League” has been the gold standard in voter education for nearly 100 years. The League has officially partnered with SeePolitical this year in our policy research and distribution of our video content. \r\n\r\nImaginary Forces – Our Emmy award winning animation studio located in West LA creates and develops video content for SeePolitical. Since 1996, Imaginary Forces has told many stories, pushed many boundaries and entertained audiences through their work. \r\n\r\nUSC's Unruh Institute of Politics - is dedicated to bridging\L the academic study of politics with practical experience. This includes an internship program with SeePolitical that started January 2014 where students learn about California’s direct democracy system and participate in research and analysis of current and future ballot propositions. \r\n\r\nOtis College of Art and Design - Established in 1918, Otis College of Art and Design is L.A.’s first independent professional school of art. In coordination with the college’s liberal arts and digital media departments, the college is offering a multi-disciplinary SeePolitical work-study course for their seniors.\r\n\r\nGuru Media Solutions – Guru is a full service agency empowering movements through compelling digital campaigns and brand experiences. Guru is a nimble, creative, independent minded digital marketing agency serving purpose-driven campaigns, organizations, and brands. \r\n\r\nThe California Channel – The California Channel a.k.a. California’s C-SPAN station has agreed to air SeePolitical’s informative ballot prop videos prior to the November election. \r\n\r\nSeePolitical is in serious partnership discussions with: Univision (distribution and Spanish voice overs), 89.3 FM KPCC (distribution), YouTube (distribution), FWD.us (distribution and engagement), and Yelp.com (distribute our videos to over 1.4 million of their Los Angeles County subscribers).\r\n\r\nEach day our list of partners and collaborators grow because people understand the need for our service and want to encourage voter participation in LA. \r\n\r\nIn order for our partnerships to succeed, SeePolitical must: 1) Deliver high quality videos that engage our audience 2) Provide strictly unbiased interpretations for each ballot proposition 3) Continue to nurture our existing relationships and develop relationships beyond our initial scope by directly engaging each organization’s membership and/or audience."
  org_name: SeePolitical
  metrics_connect_voting: '1'
  metrics_connect_adultsupport: '0'
  metrics_connect_traveltime: '0'
  metrics_connect_culturalevents: '0'
  metrics_connect_publictransit: '0'
  metrics_connect_neighborhoodcouncils: '1'
  metrics_connect_volunteer: '0'
  metrics_connect_govresponsiveness: '1'
  metrics_connect_transitaccessible: '0'
  metrics_connect_socialmedia: '1'
  metrics_connect_attendance: '1'
  metrics_connect_residential segregation: '0'
  metrics_connect_wifi: '0'
  metrics_connect_other: '0'
  metrics_connect_blank: ''
  resources_network: '1'
  best_place_to_learn: '1'
  best_place_to_create: '1'
  healthiest_place_to_live: '1'
  best_place_to_play: '0'
  evaluate: "For the first time ever underserved voters will be able to: Quickly and easily understand ballot propositions that affect them; easily record thoughts on ballot propositions and establish reminders for specific voting dates; quickly share thoughts with friends in Los Angeles and other interested parties through established social networks; interact with the next generation of voter education tools via their device of choice\r\n\r\nHow We Measure Success:\r\n➢\tBuild Relationships Through Digital/Social:\r\n•\tAttract -> Convert -> Support -> Extend\r\n➢\tMeasure Effectiveness of Campaign through Impressions -> Leads -> Conversions -> Loyalty/Engagement\r\n\r\nWe want to meet our brand awareness goal by engaging at least 5% of California registered voters, which equals approximately 890,000 people, mostly in the Los Angeles region. \r\n\r\nMetric Goals\r\nWeb: \t50k monthly unique visits\r\nSocial Media/Emails:\t 50k+ Database\r\nVideo Impressions:\t1M+ video impressions\r\nWidgets Distributed:\t50+\r\nWidget Impressions:\t500k+\r\n"
  two_lessons: "I have dedicated my life to ensuring that everyone has an equal opportunity to participate in the political process. My work as communications and legislative director for LA City Councilmembers Bill Rosendahl and Mike Bonin prepared me with the skills necessary to navigate the choppy waters of Los Angeles politics.  \r\n\r\nEven in City Hall, I noticed most professional policymakers couldn’t understand the complex language for ballot propositions.  I had an epiphany when the LA Times called me to find out how Councilmember Rosendahl was going to vote on the 2008 election, and it took us over five hours to fill out his ballot. Rosendahl, the first openly gay councilmember in LA history didn’t even know if he should vote YES or NO on Proposition 8, one of the most important votes of his life. I wondered, “If it takes him this long to understand the ballot propositions, how can the average voter be expected to get it?” \r\n\r\nSeePolitical is trying to break down the barriers of entry into the political process.  In particular, new voters and naturalized immigrants, confront the daunting task of educating themselves on the major policy issues of the day with little or no assistance from our government. Even worse, voters are bombarded with advertisements from proponents and opponents of propositions that confuse and belittle the democratic process.\r\n\r\nMaking informed decisions on ballot measures is about to become even more confusing for voters following the January 2010 5-4 Supreme Court ruling that unions and corporations are allowed to donate an unlimited amount of funds towards campaign advertising. The Supreme Court made another ruling this year that lifts the cap a wealthy individual can donate to all political candidates. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, Americans are beginning to feel the detrimental effects of an even more muddled and confusing education process.  This is another reason why SeePolitical is more necessary now than ever – to bring the balance back. "
  achievable_goal: "SeePolitical has already designed a format and successfully tested our educational videos and mobile technology. We have also forged important distribution partnerships to expand our reach with traditional organizations like the League of Women Voters and online companies like Yelp. We are ready to rock!\r\n\r\nDuring the start-up phase this year, the following major events will occur, some simultaneously:\r\n\r\n2 Months:\r\n➢\tObtain $150,000 in first round funding for launch\r\n➢\tSolidify partnerships with the initial prospective distribution partners\r\n➢\tHire key personnel and expand SP’s technology teams\r\n➢\tIdentify all qualified propositions\r\n➢\tBegin production for videos for each proposition on the CA November 2014 ballot\r\n➢\tChoose content partners for full public launch in time for the November election\r\n➢\tEstablish branding, design and overall creative direction\r\n➢\tFinalize operating procedures\r\n➢\tEstablish initial marketing campaign\r\n➢\tDevelop & launch Alpha site\r\n\r\n4 Months:\r\n➢\tBegin process of raising A round financing through proven success\r\n➢\tSolidify creative partnerships with key political and voter-registration organizations for distribution\r\n➢\tFinalize Operating Procedures\r\n➢\tAll proposition animations completed \r\n➢\tLaunch populated Alpha website and applications\r\n➢\tDelivery of vote reminders by next Election Day \r\n➢\tBegin process of raising A round financing through proof of concept\r\n➢\tEstablish plans for scaling to other markets\r\n➢\tSocial media, publicity and media buying blitz\r\n➢\tFinalize partnerships (distribution points and relevant influencers) for next election season\r\n\r\n1 Year:\r\n➢\tObtain $750,000 in phase 2 Foundation funding and grants \r\n➢\tExpand SeePolitical model to 5 more states\r\n➢\tExpand distribution and partnership network\r\n➢\tDevelop white labeling system for distribution networks\r\n➢\tDevelop Business analytics monetization avenue\r\n➢\tExpand prototypes and thinking for next tier of state launches\r\n"
  major_challenges: "Our first challenge will be to convince voters and likely voters that their vote counts and a better option is available to learn about what's on their ballot.  Los Angeles already experienced record low voter turnout during the June 2014 primary indicating a lack of enthusiasm and interest in our elections.  Voting is not a priority for many people in our city – we believe this is because the information is not being communicated in a dynamic format people in LA have come to expect. It will be challenging to overcome the voter apathy experienced by millions of Angelenos, however, we believe it is a challenge worth facing considering the long-term dire consequences of a disinterested voting population. \r\n\r\nWe aim to address this serious challenge by partnering with trusted social media partners like Yelp, YouTube, and Facebook, as well as traditional political organizations such as the League of Women Voters, California Common Cause, Head Count, and Voto Latino to distribute our videos and voter tool in order to engage their members/audiences.\r\n\r\nAnother major challenge will be our ability to raise enough funds to produce high quality educational videos.  SeePolitical is in the beginning stages of fundraising and seeking financial contributions to produce our ballot prop videos and distribute them to everyone in this city. Winning this challenge would be a “shot in the arm” and allow us to immediately begin video production ensuring every Angeleno has a clear understanding of their ballot. \r\n"
  competition: "A few providers exist that communicate nonpartisan information about ballot proposition. They are competitors in the sense that they provide accurate information. However, the websites rely mostly on text to get their messages across and prove to be dull user experience platforms. Then there are of course highly biased political advertisements which air ad nauseam for months leading to Election Day.\r\n\r\nFirst and foremost, it is the CA Secretary of State and LA County Clerks responsibility to gather and disseminate “Voter Guides” to every registered voter. Most are familiar with the drab grey volumes of voter information that gets delivered to the mailbox a month before Election Day.   This guide is chock full of information but requires hours of studying to decipher the legalese. Ballotpedia.org provides well-balanced information regarding each ballot proposition, but all the information is text-heavy. The League of Women Voters has been the gold standard for providing unbiased information to voters for nearly a century. Not only is the League’s work complimentary to our own, but also their board of directors voted unanimously this summer to partner with SeePolitical.\r\n\r\nSeePolitical’s advantages include:\r\n1.\tTechnology - the depth of technologies custom built by partner organization Guru Media Solutions, specifically the capabilities of our social media search and analytics technologies far exceed anything remotely close to being available to competitors. We are also on the cutting edge of application and mobile development to be able to reach our consumers at any touch point. \r\n2.\tDesign - the design of our content clusters allows users to easily interact with valuable content whether on their desktop, mobile phone or Facebook. \r\n3.\tFunction - our content clusters operate as independent tools, but give the ability to create profiles and socially interact with other users. Watch>Choose>Vote...hang out and learn from others.\r\n4.\tRelationships - because of the opportunity in the space and the team we have been able to assemble, we have been able to engage significant and \"high profile\" distribution and political partners. This will bode well for our first alpha test Los Angeles.\r\n5.\tScience and R&D - We keep abreast of the latest search technologies while advancing our research with respect to Web 3.0 trends. \r\n6.\tHigh Quality Videos – Our Emmy Award winning animation studio, Imaginary Forces, produces some the best video content in the world. "
  cost: "The cost depends on the longevity and scope of this project. \r\n\r\nIt will cost approximately $150,000 to generate initial success in Los Angeles, prove our model this year and then seek additional subsequent funding. Below we list some keys to success along with our key sources of revenue, which will ultimately determine whether we succeed as an organization. \r\n\r\nKeys To Success\r\n•\tBuilding and maintaining strategic alliances with our partners.\r\n•\tCombining well thought out analysis of political issues with fun engaging entertainment\r\n•\tExecuting on the challenges of integrating our technologies, while keeping pace with innovation\r\n•\tDedication to be a triple bottom line organization\r\n•\tManaging the business by implementing, and consistently measuring and adjusting accordingly\r\n \r\nRevenue Streams:\r\nDonations\r\nSeePolitical will not only be looking for several large scale gifts or donations from foundations, partners or other socially conscious politically active organizations, but also will give fans a way to easily donate through a donor tool.\r\n\r\nAdvertising Revenue\r\nIt is extremely important for SeePolitical to remain as an unbiased “A-political” organization, which does not let outside funding of any kind influence the content we share with our target audience. It is also extremely important that we establish a sustainable business model, which can “keep the engine going” beyond initial nonprofit funding. For this reason, we will be outsourcing our advertising team to a transparent ad network, ad brokers and ad servers that has access to our data and analytics to place pre-funded advertisements among our content. These may show as display banner ads (original, retargeting and look-a-like), interstitials, PPC, email, etc.\r\n\r\nContent Cluster Distribution\r\nThis will be a valuable mobile widget, which can easily be implemented on partner organizations sites to provide value for their audiences. In these cases we will “add” our rich media offerings to broaden the “product mix” for those content partners. It could be “powered by SeePolitical” or white labeled.\r\n\r\n\"Premium\" Analytical Data\r\nSocial data (or \"collective intelligence\") is automatically analyzed into easy-to-understand reports, which are unbiased, highly accurate in-depth snapshots of your customer, from mass to individual, with unmistakable transparency. For those who knowingly opt-in, all personal info will remain encrypted and confidential.\r\n"
  budget: "SeePolitical is a Los Angeles based nonprofit organization with big dreams to eventually provide clarity of the electoral process for the rest of the nation. However, we understand that we need to walk before we can run. This initial $100,000 will cover the entire production costs for our trusted ballot prop videos for the upcoming November’s election in LA.  Our animation studio is willing to shoulder the costs until Election Day but require cost recovery for their services, which will not be marked up for profit.\r\n\r\nEach educational ballot proposition video costs approximately $15,000 to produce. Our policy research work is currently donated, but there is no avoiding the hard costs of high quality videos production.\r\n\r\nThere are currently seven ballot propositions qualified for the November ballot with the possibility of the Legislature adding one or two more props within the next month.   Highly controversial issues like a statewide water bond bill or determining whether doctors in this state should be drug tested will be posed to every Angeleno registered to vote. We are currently seeking funds to pay for the production of each video and winning this $100,000 will give SeePolitical the financial means required to prove the concept that voting can be fun and relatively easy.  A detailed budget of SeePolitical’s nonprofit organization can be made available upon request. \r\n\r\nWhen Los Angeles sneezes, the rest of the country catches a cold. SeePolitical has the potential to level the playing field for everyone in the nation, and what better place to start than in Los Angeles? Winning the LA 2050 challenge will boost the success of this important voter project, which has become a true LA story. \r\n"
  resources_money: '1'
  resources_staff: '0'
  resources_publicity: '1'
  resources_infrastructure: '0'
  resources_education: '0'
  resources_technical: '1'
  resources_communityoutreach: '1'
  resources_research: '0'
  impact_metrics: "SeePolitical is designed to make the political process less political and more transparent and accessible for everyone regardless of socio-economic status or education level. It shouldn’t be necessary to be a lawyer or a politico in order to understand the complex language on each ballot.  \r\n\r\nMany people in our city are often too intimidated to vote or don’t feel like their vote actually counts, and who can blame them? Ballot measures are sometimes purposefully written to confuse and deter voter participation. SeePolitical will eliminate the phrase from our electoral lexicon, “Does No, mean Yes or Yes, mean No?” \r\n\r\nGovernment programs will respond to the needs of its constituents and empower Angelenos during the decision making process. Finally, everyone will have an opportunity to participate in our democratic process and make informed decisions in the voting booth.  "
Which area(s) of LA does your project benefit? Other (elaborate): >-
  SeePolitical.com is an interactive website, widget and mobile app providing
  objective, easily understood information about ballot propositions for all
  Angelenos. Trying to understand the complex language found on most ballots is
  frustrating and often results in uninformed voters approving unintended
  consequences. In the case for our region, most voters are not even
  participating. The June 2014 primary turned out an alarmingly record-low
  number of voters in Los Angeles County. 
   
   SeePolitical breaks the mold by offering unbiased entertaining educational content that informs and empowers voters in English and in Spanish.
What is your idea/project in more detail?: >-
  SeePolitical is nonprofit organization offering an unprecedented service:
  Concise, unbiased, entertaining information on ballot measures, which we all
  crave. 
   
   Los Angeles is the perfect place for SeePolitical to start educating voters. Voters in this city are confronted multiple times a year with major public policy issues with huge social implications and billions of dollars at stake. SeePolitical’s initial goal is to educate and inform Angelenos about the implications of each statewide ballot measure. 
   
   After a successful trial in Los Angeles, SeePolitical will begin to cover ballot props in other cities and states. SeePolitical has the potential to be the go-to source for voter education and will quickly surpass outdated text heavy formats currently used to inform the public.
   
   We have already built an incredible team in Los Angeles and tested the concept, now it’s time to execute:
   1) SeePolitical and the League of Women Voters have teamed up to conduct expert policy research & analysis for each ballot proposition, ensuring a fair and balanced explanation for both the Yes and No side.
   2) Our Emmy-award winning studio, Imaginary Forces, located in LA translates this research into informative, engaging videos explaining each ballot prop less than 2 minutes.
   3) SeePolitical’s videos will be distributed to partner organizations and media outlets across LA County for mass distribution. 
   4) Voters can watch our videos on the web or from any mobile device, and save their voting preferences on SeePolitical’s mobile app which they can use as their personal cheat sheet on Election Day!
   5) SeePolitical will have unprecedented real-time polling data and insights to localized and aggregate voter behavior and trends.
   
   SeePolitical’s characters clarify what a YES vote entails and what a NO vote entails for each proposition during a 60-90 second animated, audio cartoon clip. Each viewer can save his/her choice by clicking on the YES, NO, or MAYBE button at the bottom of the screen. The viewer then has the option to print or save their selections for easy reference that will be emailed and/or texted to them when it is time to vote.
What will you do to implement this idea/project?: >-
  SeePolitical will literally connect LA residents to the issues we are expected
  to vote on. SeePolitical strives to increase understanding of major public
  policy issues by reaching target demographics in their environments with
  engaging, interactive and entertaining content.
   
   Our nonprofit organization has developed a novel method to address a major social problem in our city - voter confusion and voter apathy - which are inherently linked. After proving our concept this year in Los Angeles, SeePolitical will provide a platform for all Angelenos to discuss and organize around political issues.
   
   SeePolitical can provide an innovative approach to explaining ballot measures that surpasses the status quo in impact and cost. 
   
   SeePolitical’s integrity is established with completely unbiased and objective explanations. We utilize the Attorney General and Secretary of State’s public voter guide as our primary source of analysis. The popularity of SeePolitical will lie in our ability to convey this information to Angelenos through dynamic animation. The success of SeePolitical lies in our ability to engage potential voters in their online environments, provide cutting edge easy to use tools for understanding and make them care enough to share. The outcome will be a well-informed voting public in this city with a clear understanding of each proposition we encounter in the voting booth. SeePolitical’s bottom line is to increase overall voter turnout at each election and connect Angelenos to some of the most important issues we face as a city and region. 
   
   SeePolitical will engage users in their social environments through custom built social media and mobile applications giving them the ability to interact with each other and share. For instance, your friend in Silver Lake took a SeePolitical poll on Facebook and another one in Boyle Heights shared their thoughts and video via our iPhone application. Our mobile rich media widgets will inform target audiences by offering value added content on partner websites. 
   
   Long term plans include building a walled garden social network for voters in our city to align and organize around issues dear to them, archiving ballot measures and voter behaviors, becoming a valuable source of educational information for students involved with the formulation of public policy and expanding the scope to a national scale.
How will your idea/project help make LA the best place to connect today? In LA2050?: >-
  SeePolitical will truly benefit everyone in LA. Residents who feel it is their
  civic duty to vote but don’t want to spend too much time learning about
  propositions will be able to enjoy SeePolitical’s entertaining and informative
  content. New U.S. citizens who don’t read English well enough to truly
  understand the legal jargon on each ballot will have an opportunity to watch
  and listen to SeePolitical’s explanations in their native tongue. The seasoned
  voter will also enjoy a new and refreshing take on explaining policy issues,
  in addition to access to links to outside content that can offer more in-depth
  explanations. Teachers in our classrooms will finally have a tool to help
  their students learn about the complex issues that their parents are voting on
  as well as the very process that they too will be expected to participate in
  as adult citizens. When it comes down to it, everyone in our great city will
  benefit from SeePolitical’s content and voter tool.
   
   The organization was started with a goal and a dream four years ago. To date, we have created an ecosystem of partnerships, distribution channels and affiliations to political organizations that led to our beta launch in Summer and Fall 2012 elections. Since 2012 we have secured major partnerships with LA’s own Emmy Award winning animation studio, Imaginary Forces, and the USC's Unruh Institute of Politics (their students assist in our policy analysis research) as well as the Otis College of Art and Design near LAX. 
   
   We intend to impact as much of the population as possible in future elections, but do have some specific segments we are focusing on, such as: African American, Latino and Asian populations; young voters; low-income voters; immigrants; and as part of our dedication to education a subcategory would be students not old enough to vote. 
   
   There are persistent gaps in voter turnout by income and educational attainment. Percentage of eligible youth vote turnout (18-29 years old) is also at a historic low lending to a “political lag” by which the public policies adopted don’t reflect the needs of the citizenry, because most aren’t participating. 
   
   SeePolitical will offer teachers in the classroom a free and easy to use tool to teach their students about the major public policy issues of the day, as well as issues from the past. We can offer a unique and entertaining format to get kids in LAUSD and surrounding school districts interested and involved in the democratic process.
Whom will your project benefit? Please be specific.: |-
  Confirmed Partners include: 
   California League of Women Voters – “The League” has been the gold standard in voter education for nearly 100 years. The League has officially partnered with SeePolitical this year in our policy research and distribution of our video content. 
   
   Imaginary Forces – Our Emmy award winning animation studio located in West LA creates and develops video content for SeePolitical. Since 1996, Imaginary Forces has told many stories, pushed many boundaries and entertained audiences through their work. 
   
   USC's Unruh Institute of Politics - is dedicated to bridging the academic study of politics with practical experience. This includes an internship program with SeePolitical that started January 2014 where students learn about California’s direct democracy system and participate in research and analysis of current and future ballot propositions. 
   
   Otis College of Art and Design - Established in 1918, Otis College of Art and Design is L.A.’s first independent professional school of art. In coordination with the college’s liberal arts and digital media departments, the college is offering a multi-disciplinary SeePolitical work-study course for their seniors.
   
   Guru Media Solutions – Guru is a full service agency empowering movements through compelling digital campaigns and brand experiences. Guru is a nimble, creative, independent minded digital marketing agency serving purpose-driven campaigns, organizations, and brands. 
   
   The California Channel – The California Channel a.k.a. California’s C-SPAN station has agreed to air SeePolitical’s informative ballot prop videos prior to the November election. 
   
   SeePolitical is in serious partnership discussions with: Univision (distribution and Spanish voice overs), 89.3 FM KPCC (distribution), YouTube (distribution), FWD.us (distribution and engagement), and Yelp.com (distribute our videos to over 1.4 million of their Los Angeles County subscribers).
   
   Each day our list of partners and collaborators grow because people understand the need for our service and want to encourage voter participation in LA. 
   
   In order for our partnerships to succeed, SeePolitical must: 1) Deliver high quality videos that engage our audience 2) Provide strictly unbiased interpretations for each ballot proposition 3) Continue to nurture our existing relationships and develop relationships beyond our initial scope by directly engaging each organization’s membership and/or audience.
youtube_video_identifier: XBMMD3_5s30

---
