---
organization_id: '2013204'
project_image: 'https://img.youtube.com/vi/Ih-cjiooJ3M/maxresdefault.jpg'
project_id: '3102264'
title: DIY Social Spaces
indicator: ' Social Connectedness'
What is your idea and how will it impact your indicator?: "Just like TreePeople has trained and organized volunteers to plant trees, Union de Vecinos  proposes to train and organize 1,000s of Angeleno volunteers to design and build DIY social  space for their neighborhoods.  Los Angeles’ social connectedness deficit is rooted in our poorly maintained car dominated streets, alleys and neighborhoods.  Most Angelenos wish for a more walkable, safer, neighborly environment, but see no way they can make a change when even the simplest public space project seems to take years and hundreds of thousands of dollars. \n\n\n\n\n\nWe think we have found a solution: DIY social spaces created by volunteers in a few months for a few thousand dollars.   In the last year we have, brought neighbors together in five locations in Boyle Heights to use their DIY ingenuity  and innovation creating create shared spaces of social connectedness. This included transforming streets and alleys by building physical improvements and organizing activities to reclaim the space. Our vision for 2013 is to organize Boyle Heights neighbors to build DIY social spaces across the community so every resident lives within two blocks of a local commons . Our project will also create the tools and materials that will enable us to help Angelenos replicate this process across the city. Neighbors building their own shared social space, builds social connectedness in many ways. \n\n\n\n\n\n*\tBarn Raising— This is where neighbors share time, tools, skills, food. Together, they build relationships that flourish long after the last nail is driven.   \n\n\n*\tClaiming and Shaping Shared Space — Through the project neighbors create their own public space which deepens their commitment to the neighborhood and recruits other residents to do the same. \n\n\n*\tSparking Conversations and Relationships   Over time there will be 100s  of spontaneous connections made by residents who meet or cross paths in the space during the course of the project’s life changing the quality of relationships between neighbors.\n\n\n\n\n\nOur process engages the local neighborhood’s untapped potential by bringing people together to address common neighborhood problems.  We start by building Networks of Neighborhood Committees, composed of neighborhood residents  that make a commitment to work together to make positive changes in their local neighborhood.  These changes include building a team that creates opportunities to get to know your neighbors and to  together to build  simple DIY projects that have long lasting and transformative impacts in the community. In Boyle Heights, we began organizing activities on our streets and in our alleys such as regular cleanups, movie nights, mercados, and childrens activities.  This started to transform spaces that had been  deemed unsafe into  healthy, thriving, and desirable places to live where neighbors can play, be active, and engage in constructive community building activities. \n\n\n\n\n\nHowever organized activities alone cannot fully complete a transformation. When no activity is occurring, the streets and alleys can look and feel empty.  We have realized that we needed to reinforce the impact of our activities with physical improvements to create and promote  sustainable active and healthy alleys. In addition, given  limited municipal resources, we found ways to make the physical improvements that led into immediate changes with low investment , and without waiting for it to be done for us, but rather by doing it ourselves.  \n\n\n \n\n\nTo provide an example, one of our neighborhood committees, called Bienestar, identified a specific alley as problematic.  It was unlit, dark, filled with potholes, and painted with graffiti.  Residents also complained about the need for space next to their homes in which children could play safely. Last year, this committee  came up with a plan to transform the alley into  a small plaza.  They organized regular cleanups and removed the graffiti.  The youth in the neighborhood designed a mural and received permission to paint it on one of the buildings.  As the city did not have resources to repave the alley, neighbors was able to raise money to buy materials and the residents donated the labor and repaved the alley themselves.  They also installed solar lighting and designed and built planters.  Finally, they finished painting a design on the floor of the repaved alley. Today, when the residents want to bring their children outside they use the planters to close the alley to cars and create a small plaza in front of the mural they painted.  This was all accomplished with 6 months, less than $3,200.  By adding countless volunteer hours, the considerable skills of neighborhood residents and the passion and ownership that comes from doing it yourself, we were able to transform an alley for a small fraction of the time and resources the City or anyone else would spend to have the same impact. This is an example of neighbors taking initiative coming together to rebuild their city one block at a time.\n\n\n"
What are some of your organization’s most important achievements to date?: "In 2000 we won a Best Practice award for our community organizing from the United Nations’ Huairou Commission. In our model, solutions to a problem are developed by those most affected.  It places the community first and at the center of our work. We take a bottom up approach. We start with the community’s understanding of their problems and engage the community in addressing these issues. We organize block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood and bring this network together.  We do this through reflection, action, analysis and start again with each phase bringing new information.  Through this process community members learn to negotiate and prioritize their demands amongst themselves. Our organizing campaigns as identified by our community members include the following: preservation of healthy affordable housing; the right to clean water; the right to clean air; and the right to safe and healthy neighborhoods. \n\n\n\n\n\nThe Bienestar committees success in transforming their alley clearly demonstrated the potential for creating healthy alleys through the doityourself community action our long organizing history makes possible.   In addition to this we have the following accomplishments:\n\n\n\n\n\nEJ and Neighborhood Health and Safety\n\n\no\tNeighborhood base improvements,  Installed physical improvements to transform the use of 5 alleys in Boyle Heights and identified 6 more to begin transformation this year\n\n\no\tNegotiated to reduce costly police engagement in neighborhood activity in our community\n\n\no\tReduced  violence and fear on Fickett St without criminalization or police intervention through neighborhood occupation\n\n\no\tWorked with Environmental Justice Coalition for Water and Assemblyman John Perez to pass a state law allowing for the City of Maywood to have more regulatory powers over the water companies\n\n\no\tGained support from Assemblyman Rendon to develop a policy to create a public water district in Maywood\n\n\no\tOrganized and won two new parks in the City of Maywood; \n\n\no\tPassed a law in the City of Maywood that allows street vendors to obtain vending permits;  \n\n\no\tReprioritized how the City of LA distributed resources for basic services;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHousing\n\n\no\tTrained and developed  tenants to understand RSO Regulations and the city’s inspection processes.\n\n\no\tIdentified and worked with 188 tenants during their inspection processes in the last year\n\n\no\tWith LACAN, formed an LA Citywide multicultural coalition that puts homeless, tenants, and public housing residents voices at the front of the struggle to expand rent control rights and protect public housing.\n\n\no\tSuccessful in swearing in one of our members as a Housing Authority of City of LA Board of Commissioner (HACLA);\n\n\no\tStopped HACLA’s elimination of public housing for a 3 year period;\n\n\no\tPassed 2 advisory measures in Maywood protecting families from the demolition of their homes; \n\n\no\tOrganized, drafted, and passed Just Cause Ordinance in the City "
Please identify any partners or collaborators who will work with you on this project.: >-
  Union de Vecinos has a seventeen year history working in Boyle Heights.  We
  formed in 1996 with 36 members and have grown to an organization that works in
  East LA and the City of Maywood. We understand the importance of working in
  collaborations with other organizations in order to reach the scale and impact
  we aim to achieve.  For this project we will be partnering with Shared Spaces,
  a landscape architecture partnerships. We will also be working with local
  business especially those that line the alleys along the commercial corridors
  in Boyle Heights. Other partners include the  LA Human Right to Housing
  Collective,   Green LA, and the artist collective Ultrared.
Please explain how you will evaluate your project. How will you measure success?: >-
  Our criteria for evaluating our progress is rooted in three core questions: 1)
  Has our strategy engaged, empowered, and activated new community residents to
  participate in the project?; 2) Have our strategies strengthened relationships
  and collaborations between local neighborhoods? and 3) Did we transform the
  alleys into  safe and healthy environments?  If not, what were the obstacles
  to accomplishing this?   Evaluation of the work occurs monthly with staff and
  community members.  We also will review the number of alleys transformed,
  whether the alleys have a core group of community members committed to
  maintaining them, the costs and labor involved, and where additional resources
  can be found.
How will your project benefit Los Angeles? Please be specific.: "Our vision for 2050 is a city where DIY social spaces are more common than gas stations, Starbucks, liquor stores or police cars.  A city where each neighborhood, each set of blocks, has its neighborhood space where people regularly meet, catchup on the news and gossip, hatch new projects and just enjoy being connected. \n\n\n\n\n\nThe challenge in LA is that even the small park or plaza can take years to get approved and built and cost hundreds of thousands of dollars or more.   In contrast, our Community Living Rooms or Salas Publicas, just take weeks to build and cost less than $5,000.   The keys elements are:\n\n\n*\tTapping neighborhood volunteers wealth of knowledge, skills and commitment.\n\n\n*\tCreating and building simple, functional designs together using basic,  available materials.\n\n\n*\tTaking advantage of available land—in alleys, sidewalksidewalks, adjacent to churches, temples, nonprofits and collaborating businesses\n\n\n*\tImproving spots where people already gather—at bus stops, by the corner store, at the entrance to the alley.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis project pulls people out of their homes, brings neighbors together to work together, builds social relationships while transforming an underutilized space into a play space for the community.  It combines DIY culture with community building, with members donating their own time and labor to beautify and change how they use their alleys and local spaces. All of LA also benefits in the following ways from our project:\n\n\n\n\n\n*\tengages and demonstrates how a small group of neighbors can create their own mobile source of space given limited space across the city\n\n\n*\ttriggers a chain reaction of neighborhood change — once neighbors see  the changes they make, they join or invite  others to build new projects.\n\n\n*\tIt challenges the car culture — to get out and work with your neighbors to build something that is shared in the local neighborhood.\n\n\n*\tIt creates safe streets and neighborhood engagement in creating in addressing public safety\n\n\n*\tIt builds community networks across communities\n\n\n*\tIt is an intergenerational approach involving neighbors of all ages and all backgrounds.\n\n\n"
What would success look like in the year 2050 regarding your indicator?: >-
  Success for us would be that every alley in Boyle Heights would have a group
  of dedicated community members working to maintain and transform their alley. 
  Success would mean that there are physical improvement projects that were
  built in the alleys such as solar lighting, greening of the alleys, street
  furniture, bulletin boards, etc.  Success would mean that    community members
  would organize activities in the alleys so that the space was not just a place
  for cars and trash but a place to come together and build community. Success
  would mean that other communities in Los Angeles would grasp this form of
  transformative change and replicate it in their local neighborhoods.
year_submitted: 2013
project_video: 'https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ih-cjiooJ3M'
youtube_video_identifier: Ih-cjiooJ3M
maker_answers:
  Organization Name: Union de Vecinos
  website: www.uniondevecinos.net
  Indicator: ' Social Connectedness'
  brief: "Just like TreePeople has trained and organized volunteers to plant trees, Union de Vecinos  proposes to train and organize 1,000s of Angeleno volunteers to design and build DIY social  space for their neighborhoods.  Los Angeles’ social connectedness deficit is rooted in our poorly maintained car dominated streets, alleys and neighborhoods.  Most Angelenos wish for a more walkable, safer, neighborly environment, but see no way they can make a change when even the simplest public space project seems to take years and hundreds of thousands of dollars. \r\n\r\nWe think we have found a solution: DIY social spaces created by volunteers in a few months for a few thousand dollars.   In the last year we have, brought neighbors together in five locations in Boyle Heights to use their DIY ingenuity  and innovation creating create shared spaces of social connectedness. This included transforming streets and alleys by building physical improvements and organizing activities to reclaim the space. Our vision for 2013 is to organize Boyle Heights neighbors to build DIY social spaces across the community so every resident lives within two blocks of a local commons . Our project will also create the tools and materials that will enable us to help Angelenos replicate this process across the city. Neighbors building their own shared social space, builds social connectedness in many ways. \r\n\r\n•\tBarn Raising— This is where neighbors share time, tools, skills, food. Together, they build relationships that flourish long after the last nail is driven.   \r\n•\tClaiming and Shaping Shared Space – Through the project neighbors create their own public space which deepens their commitment to the neighborhood and recruits other residents to do the same. \r\n•\tSparking Conversations and Relationships  - Over time there will be 100s  of spontaneous connections made by residents who meet or cross paths in the space during the course of the project’s life changing the quality of relationships between neighbors.\r\n\r\nOur process engages the local neighborhood’s untapped potential by bringing people together to address common neighborhood problems.  We start by building Networks of Neighborhood Committees, composed of neighborhood residents  that make a commitment to work together to make positive changes in their local neighborhood.  These changes include building a team that creates opportunities to get to know your neighbors and to  together to build  simple DIY projects that have long lasting and transformative impacts in the community. In Boyle Heights, we began organizing activities on our streets and in our alleys such as regular cleanups, movie nights, mercados, and childrens activities.  This started to transform spaces that had been  deemed unsafe into  healthy, thriving, and desirable places to live where neighbors can play, be active, and engage in constructive community building activities. \r\n\r\nHowever organized activities alone cannot fully complete a transformation. When no activity is occurring, the streets and alleys can look and feel empty.  We have realized that we needed to reinforce the impact of our activities with physical improvements to create and promote  sustainable active and healthy alleys. In addition, given  limited municipal resources, we found ways to make the physical improvements that led into immediate changes with low investment , and without waiting for it to be done for us, but rather by doing it ourselves.  \r\n \r\nTo provide an example, one of our neighborhood committees, called Bienestar, identified a specific alley as problematic.  It was unlit, dark, filled with potholes, and painted with graffiti.  Residents also complained about the need for space next to their homes in which children could play safely. Last year, this committee  came up with a plan to transform the alley into  a small plaza.  They organized regular cleanups and removed the graffiti.  The youth in the neighborhood designed a mural and received permission to paint it on one of the buildings.  As the city did not have resources to repave the alley, neighbors was able to raise money to buy materials and the residents donated the labor and repaved the alley themselves.  They also installed solar lighting and designed and built planters.  Finally, they finished painting a design on the floor of the repaved alley. Today, when the residents want to bring their children outside they use the planters to close the alley to cars and create a small plaza in front of the mural they painted.  This was all accomplished with 6 months, less than $3,200.  By adding countless volunteer hours, the considerable skills of neighborhood residents and the passion and ownership that comes from doing it yourself, we were able to transform an alley for a small fraction of the time and resources the City or anyone else would spend to have the same impact. This is an example of neighbors taking initiative coming together to rebuild their city one block at a time.\r\n"
  budget explanation: "Expenses\t                                                                Amount\r\nProject Coordinator (80%FTE)\t                           30,000\r\nCommunity Outreach Worker (100% FTE)\t           30,000\r\nTaxes and Benefits (18%)\t                                   10,800\r\nTotal Personnel\t\t                                                   70,800\r\n\t\r\nOperating\t\r\nPrinting\t                                                                                600\r\nTelephone\t                                                                        800\t\r\nLumber\t                                                                             2,200\r\nHardware                                                                           3,500\r\nConcrete\t                                                                     7,500\r\nFixtures\t                                                                             7,800\r\nPlants/Soil\t                                                                     3,000\r\nPaint\t                                                                             2,000\r\nTruck and Equipment Rental\t                                     1,800\r\n\t\r\nTotal Operating Costs\t                                            29,200\r\n\t\r\nTotal Project Cost\t                                                  100,000\r\n"
  description: "Our vision for 2050 is a city where DIY social spaces are more common than gas stations, Starbucks, liquor stores or police cars.  A city where each neighborhood, each set of blocks, has its neighborhood space where people regularly meet, catch-up on the news and gossip, hatch new projects and just enjoy being connected. \r\n\r\nThe challenge in LA is that even the small park or plaza can take years to get approved and built and cost hundreds of thousands of dollars or more.   In contrast, our Community Living Rooms or Salas Publicas, just take weeks to build and cost less than $5,000.   The keys elements are:\r\n•\tTapping neighborhood volunteers wealth of knowledge, skills and commitment.\r\n•\tCreating and building simple, functional designs together using basic,  available materials.\r\n•\tTaking advantage of available land—in alleys, sidewalksidewalks, adjacent to churches, temples, non-profits and collaborating businesses\r\n•\tImproving spots where people already gather—at bus stops, by the corner store, at the entrance to the alley.\r\n\r\nThis project pulls people out of their homes, brings neighbors together to work together, builds social relationships while transforming an underutilized space into a play space for the community.  It combines DIY culture with community building, with members donating their own time and labor to beautify and change how they use their alleys and local spaces. All of LA also benefits in the following ways from our project:\r\n\r\n•\tengages and demonstrates how a small group of neighbors can create their own mobile source of space given limited space across the city\r\n•\ttriggers a chain reaction of neighborhood change – once neighbors see  the changes they make, they join or invite  others to build new projects.\r\n•\tIt challenges the car culture – to get out and work with your neighbors to build something that is shared in the local neighborhood.\r\n•\tIt creates safe streets and neighborhood engagement in creating in addressing public safety\r\n•\tIt builds community networks across communities\r\n•\tIt is an intergenerational approach involving neighbors of all ages and all backgrounds.\r\n"
  collaborators: >-
    Union de Vecinos has a seventeen year history working in Boyle Heights.  We
    formed in 1996 with 36 members and have grown to an organization that works
    in East LA and the City of Maywood. We understand the importance of working
    in collaborations with other organizations in order to reach the scale and
    impact we aim to achieve.  For this project we will be partnering with
    Shared Spaces, a landscape architecture partnerships. We will also be
    working with local business especially those that line the alleys along the
    commercial corridors in Boyle Heights. Other partners include the  LA Human
    Right to Housing Collective,   Green LA, and the artist collective Ultrared.
  success: >-
    Our criteria for evaluating our progress is rooted in three core questions:
    1) Has our strategy engaged, empowered, and activated new community
    residents to participate in the project?; 2) Have our strategies
    strengthened relationships and collaborations between local neighborhoods?
    and 3) Did we transform the alleys into  safe and healthy environments?  If
    not, what were the obstacles to accomplishing this?   Evaluation of the work
    occurs monthly with staff and community members.  We also will review the
    number of alleys transformed, whether the alleys have a core group of
    community members committed to maintaining them, the costs and labor
    involved, and where additional resources can be found.
  description1: "In 2000 we won a Best Practice award for our community organizing from the United Nations’ Huairou Commission. In our model, solutions to a problem are developed by those most affected.  It places the community first and at the center of our work. We take a bottom up approach. We start with the community’s understanding of their problems and engage the community in addressing these issues. We organize block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood and bring this network together.  We do this through reflection, action, analysis and start again with each phase bringing new information.  Through this process community members learn to negotiate and prioritize their demands amongst themselves. Our organizing campaigns as identified by our community members include the following: preservation of healthy affordable housing; the right to clean water; the right to clean air; and the right to safe and healthy neighborhoods. \r\n\r\nThe Bienestar committees success in transforming their alley clearly demonstrated the potential for creating healthy alleys through the do-it-yourself community action our long organizing history makes possible.   In addition to this we have the following accomplishments:\r\n\r\nEJ and Neighborhood Health and Safety\r\no\tNeighborhood base improvements,  Installed physical improvements to transform the use of 5 alleys in Boyle Heights and identified 6 more to begin transformation this year\r\no\tNegotiated to reduce costly police engagement in neighborhood activity in our community\r\no\tReduced  violence and fear on Fickett St without criminalization or police intervention through neighborhood occupation\r\no\tWorked with Environmental Justice Coalition for Water and Assemblyman John Perez to pass a state law allowing for the City of Maywood to have more regulatory powers over the water companies\r\no\tGained support from Assemblyman Rendon to develop a policy to create a public water district in Maywood\r\no\tOrganized and won two new parks in the City of Maywood; \r\no\tPassed a law in the City of Maywood that allows street vendors to obtain vending permits;  \r\no\tReprioritized how the City of LA distributed resources for basic services;\r\n\r\n\r\nHousing\r\no\tTrained and developed  tenants to understand RSO Regulations and the city’s inspection processes.\r\no\tIdentified and worked with 188 tenants during their inspection processes in the last year\r\no\tWith LACAN, formed an LA Citywide multi-cultural coalition that puts homeless, tenants, and public housing residents voices at the front of the struggle to expand rent control rights and protect public housing.\r\no\tSuccessful in swearing in one of our members as a Housing Authority of City of LA Board of Commissioner (HACLA);\r\no\tStopped HACLA’s elimination of public housing for a 3 year period;\r\no\tPassed 2 advisory measures in Maywood protecting families from the demolition of their homes; \r\no\tOrganized, drafted, and passed Just Cause Ordinance in the City "
  description3: "To date we have not had any competition on our project to repurpose and reclaim the alleys. Our challenge has been describing what we do to skeptics in the community. Typically after some of those who have been skeptical come out to an event they develop a better understanding first hand of what we are trying to accomplish and eventually get involved.  One example is when we organized Friday Night in the Alleys .  In one of the alleys, that space was dominated by some kids in a way that was perceived unsafe by the neighbors.  When we closed the alley for a couple hours to organize some activities for kids, the mothers blocked the alley with cones to prevent cars from coming in.  Several of the kids were upset that they couldn’t pass but eventually drove away after seeing what was going on. The next Friday night, those same kids joined the event helping to keep cars out of the alley.  This began to create dialogue between the kids and the mothers.  The mothers realized that the kids were just like any other kid and became less afraid of them, both parties learned to come together around something positive for their neighborhood. \r\n\r\nOther attitudes that compete against us is apathy, neighborhood gentrification and the desire to normalize neighborhoods.  With respect to apathy our most successful tool to compete aginst that has been the completion of a pilot projects.  Once neighbors in the surrounding neighborhoods walked by and saw how we transformed an alley they came to us asking when and how they could do a project like their in their neighborhood.  They saw how simple, effective and quickly this can be done.  They realized how by using skills within their own neighborhoods how much ownership and control over a public space they could have in creating something positive and useful for local community residents. We already have 4 other neighborhoods wanting to start projects.\r\n\r\nGiven that Boyle Heights is ½ mile east of downtown LA, it has been the target of 11 redevelopment projects since 1996.  It has seen an investment of close to 4 billion dollar of public funds on these projects.  This has created significant change in our neighborhoods.  With this change has come the desire to normalize our neighborhood so that it looks like other neighborhoods. Our DIY projects will help to maintain the culture and community that resides in Boyle Heights.  Each of the three alleys that we have already transformed have very different identifying projects that were tailored to the needs of the residents who live in those areas.  Though one project created a placita, another one lined the alley with planters, and another one created booths in which vendors could sell on weekends. Our DIY projects allow for the flexibility  of residents to determine how best to transform the alley into a safe and creative public space that can be shared by all.\r\n"
  vision: >-
    Success for us would be that every alley in Boyle Heights would have a group
    of dedicated community members working to maintain and transform their
    alley.  Success would mean that there are physical improvement projects that
    were built in the alleys such as solar lighting, greening of the alleys,
    street furniture, bulletin boards, etc.  Success would mean that   
    community members would organize activities in the alleys so that the space
    was not just a place for cars and trash but a place to come together and
    build community. Success would mean that other communities in Los Angeles
    would grasp this form of transformative change and replicate it in their
    local neighborhoods.
  EIN: 52-2076978
  Tax Status: ' Non-profit organization'
  about_you: 'Los Angeles, CA'
  Does your project impact Los Angeles County?: 'yes'
maker_answers_list:
  - name: Organization Name
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: Union de Vecinos
  - name: website
    label: 'NULL'
    explanation: >-
      Have a homepage or blog you'd like to link to? Put the URL here.
      <br/>(Example: http://www.yoursite.com)
    answer: www.uniondevecinos.net
  - name: Indicator
    label: ''
    explanation: >-
      Please select the one indicator that is most relevant to your project or
      organization
    answer: ' Social Connectedness'
  - name: brief
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: "Just like TreePeople has trained and organized volunteers to plant trees, Union de Vecinos  proposes to train and organize 1,000s of Angeleno volunteers to design and build DIY social  space for their neighborhoods.  Los Angeles’ social connectedness deficit is rooted in our poorly maintained car dominated streets, alleys and neighborhoods.  Most Angelenos wish for a more walkable, safer, neighborly environment, but see no way they can make a change when even the simplest public space project seems to take years and hundreds of thousands of dollars. \r\n\r\nWe think we have found a solution: DIY social spaces created by volunteers in a few months for a few thousand dollars.   In the last year we have, brought neighbors together in five locations in Boyle Heights to use their DIY ingenuity  and innovation creating create shared spaces of social connectedness. This included transforming streets and alleys by building physical improvements and organizing activities to reclaim the space. Our vision for 2013 is to organize Boyle Heights neighbors to build DIY social spaces across the community so every resident lives within two blocks of a local commons . Our project will also create the tools and materials that will enable us to help Angelenos replicate this process across the city. Neighbors building their own shared social space, builds social connectedness in many ways. \r\n\r\n•\tBarn Raising— This is where neighbors share time, tools, skills, food. Together, they build relationships that flourish long after the last nail is driven.   \r\n•\tClaiming and Shaping Shared Space – Through the project neighbors create their own public space which deepens their commitment to the neighborhood and recruits other residents to do the same. \r\n•\tSparking Conversations and Relationships  - Over time there will be 100s  of spontaneous connections made by residents who meet or cross paths in the space during the course of the project’s life changing the quality of relationships between neighbors.\r\n\r\nOur process engages the local neighborhood’s untapped potential by bringing people together to address common neighborhood problems.  We start by building Networks of Neighborhood Committees, composed of neighborhood residents  that make a commitment to work together to make positive changes in their local neighborhood.  These changes include building a team that creates opportunities to get to know your neighbors and to  together to build  simple DIY projects that have long lasting and transformative impacts in the community. In Boyle Heights, we began organizing activities on our streets and in our alleys such as regular cleanups, movie nights, mercados, and childrens activities.  This started to transform spaces that had been  deemed unsafe into  healthy, thriving, and desirable places to live where neighbors can play, be active, and engage in constructive community building activities. \r\n\r\nHowever organized activities alone cannot fully complete a transformation. When no activity is occurring, the streets and alleys can look and feel empty.  We have realized that we needed to reinforce the impact of our activities with physical improvements to create and promote  sustainable active and healthy alleys. In addition, given  limited municipal resources, we found ways to make the physical improvements that led into immediate changes with low investment , and without waiting for it to be done for us, but rather by doing it ourselves.  \r\n \r\nTo provide an example, one of our neighborhood committees, called Bienestar, identified a specific alley as problematic.  It was unlit, dark, filled with potholes, and painted with graffiti.  Residents also complained about the need for space next to their homes in which children could play safely. Last year, this committee  came up with a plan to transform the alley into  a small plaza.  They organized regular cleanups and removed the graffiti.  The youth in the neighborhood designed a mural and received permission to paint it on one of the buildings.  As the city did not have resources to repave the alley, neighbors was able to raise money to buy materials and the residents donated the labor and repaved the alley themselves.  They also installed solar lighting and designed and built planters.  Finally, they finished painting a design on the floor of the repaved alley. Today, when the residents want to bring their children outside they use the planters to close the alley to cars and create a small plaza in front of the mural they painted.  This was all accomplished with 6 months, less than $3,200.  By adding countless volunteer hours, the considerable skills of neighborhood residents and the passion and ownership that comes from doing it yourself, we were able to transform an alley for a small fraction of the time and resources the City or anyone else would spend to have the same impact. This is an example of neighbors taking initiative coming together to rebuild their city one block at a time.\r\n"
  - name: budget explanation
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: "Expenses\t                                                                Amount\r\nProject Coordinator (80%FTE)\t                           30,000\r\nCommunity Outreach Worker (100% FTE)\t           30,000\r\nTaxes and Benefits (18%)\t                                   10,800\r\nTotal Personnel\t\t                                                   70,800\r\n\t\r\nOperating\t\r\nPrinting\t                                                                                600\r\nTelephone\t                                                                        800\t\r\nLumber\t                                                                             2,200\r\nHardware                                                                           3,500\r\nConcrete\t                                                                     7,500\r\nFixtures\t                                                                             7,800\r\nPlants/Soil\t                                                                     3,000\r\nPaint\t                                                                             2,000\r\nTruck and Equipment Rental\t                                     1,800\r\n\t\r\nTotal Operating Costs\t                                            29,200\r\n\t\r\nTotal Project Cost\t                                                  100,000\r\n"
  - name: description
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: "Our vision for 2050 is a city where DIY social spaces are more common than gas stations, Starbucks, liquor stores or police cars.  A city where each neighborhood, each set of blocks, has its neighborhood space where people regularly meet, catch-up on the news and gossip, hatch new projects and just enjoy being connected. \r\n\r\nThe challenge in LA is that even the small park or plaza can take years to get approved and built and cost hundreds of thousands of dollars or more.   In contrast, our Community Living Rooms or Salas Publicas, just take weeks to build and cost less than $5,000.   The keys elements are:\r\n•\tTapping neighborhood volunteers wealth of knowledge, skills and commitment.\r\n•\tCreating and building simple, functional designs together using basic,  available materials.\r\n•\tTaking advantage of available land—in alleys, sidewalksidewalks, adjacent to churches, temples, non-profits and collaborating businesses\r\n•\tImproving spots where people already gather—at bus stops, by the corner store, at the entrance to the alley.\r\n\r\nThis project pulls people out of their homes, brings neighbors together to work together, builds social relationships while transforming an underutilized space into a play space for the community.  It combines DIY culture with community building, with members donating their own time and labor to beautify and change how they use their alleys and local spaces. All of LA also benefits in the following ways from our project:\r\n\r\n•\tengages and demonstrates how a small group of neighbors can create their own mobile source of space given limited space across the city\r\n•\ttriggers a chain reaction of neighborhood change – once neighbors see  the changes they make, they join or invite  others to build new projects.\r\n•\tIt challenges the car culture – to get out and work with your neighbors to build something that is shared in the local neighborhood.\r\n•\tIt creates safe streets and neighborhood engagement in creating in addressing public safety\r\n•\tIt builds community networks across communities\r\n•\tIt is an intergenerational approach involving neighbors of all ages and all backgrounds.\r\n"
  - name: collaborators
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: >-
      Union de Vecinos has a seventeen year history working in Boyle Heights. 
      We formed in 1996 with 36 members and have grown to an organization that
      works in East LA and the City of Maywood. We understand the importance of
      working in collaborations with other organizations in order to reach the
      scale and impact we aim to achieve.  For this project we will be
      partnering with Shared Spaces, a landscape architecture partnerships. We
      will also be working with local business especially those that line the
      alleys along the commercial corridors in Boyle Heights. Other partners
      include the  LA Human Right to Housing Collective,   Green LA, and the
      artist collective Ultrared.
  - name: success
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: >-
      Our criteria for evaluating our progress is rooted in three core
      questions: 1) Has our strategy engaged, empowered, and activated new
      community residents to participate in the project?; 2) Have our strategies
      strengthened relationships and collaborations between local neighborhoods?
      and 3) Did we transform the alleys into  safe and healthy environments? 
      If not, what were the obstacles to accomplishing this?   Evaluation of the
      work occurs monthly with staff and community members.  We also will review
      the number of alleys transformed, whether the alleys have a core group of
      community members committed to maintaining them, the costs and labor
      involved, and where additional resources can be found.
  - name: description1
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: "In 2000 we won a Best Practice award for our community organizing from the United Nations’ Huairou Commission. In our model, solutions to a problem are developed by those most affected.  It places the community first and at the center of our work. We take a bottom up approach. We start with the community’s understanding of their problems and engage the community in addressing these issues. We organize block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood and bring this network together.  We do this through reflection, action, analysis and start again with each phase bringing new information.  Through this process community members learn to negotiate and prioritize their demands amongst themselves. Our organizing campaigns as identified by our community members include the following: preservation of healthy affordable housing; the right to clean water; the right to clean air; and the right to safe and healthy neighborhoods. \r\n\r\nThe Bienestar committees success in transforming their alley clearly demonstrated the potential for creating healthy alleys through the do-it-yourself community action our long organizing history makes possible.   In addition to this we have the following accomplishments:\r\n\r\nEJ and Neighborhood Health and Safety\r\no\tNeighborhood base improvements,  Installed physical improvements to transform the use of 5 alleys in Boyle Heights and identified 6 more to begin transformation this year\r\no\tNegotiated to reduce costly police engagement in neighborhood activity in our community\r\no\tReduced  violence and fear on Fickett St without criminalization or police intervention through neighborhood occupation\r\no\tWorked with Environmental Justice Coalition for Water and Assemblyman John Perez to pass a state law allowing for the City of Maywood to have more regulatory powers over the water companies\r\no\tGained support from Assemblyman Rendon to develop a policy to create a public water district in Maywood\r\no\tOrganized and won two new parks in the City of Maywood; \r\no\tPassed a law in the City of Maywood that allows street vendors to obtain vending permits;  \r\no\tReprioritized how the City of LA distributed resources for basic services;\r\n\r\n\r\nHousing\r\no\tTrained and developed  tenants to understand RSO Regulations and the city’s inspection processes.\r\no\tIdentified and worked with 188 tenants during their inspection processes in the last year\r\no\tWith LACAN, formed an LA Citywide multi-cultural coalition that puts homeless, tenants, and public housing residents voices at the front of the struggle to expand rent control rights and protect public housing.\r\no\tSuccessful in swearing in one of our members as a Housing Authority of City of LA Board of Commissioner (HACLA);\r\no\tStopped HACLA’s elimination of public housing for a 3 year period;\r\no\tPassed 2 advisory measures in Maywood protecting families from the demolition of their homes; \r\no\tOrganized, drafted, and passed Just Cause Ordinance in the City "
  - name: description3
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: "To date we have not had any competition on our project to repurpose and reclaim the alleys. Our challenge has been describing what we do to skeptics in the community. Typically after some of those who have been skeptical come out to an event they develop a better understanding first hand of what we are trying to accomplish and eventually get involved.  One example is when we organized Friday Night in the Alleys .  In one of the alleys, that space was dominated by some kids in a way that was perceived unsafe by the neighbors.  When we closed the alley for a couple hours to organize some activities for kids, the mothers blocked the alley with cones to prevent cars from coming in.  Several of the kids were upset that they couldn’t pass but eventually drove away after seeing what was going on. The next Friday night, those same kids joined the event helping to keep cars out of the alley.  This began to create dialogue between the kids and the mothers.  The mothers realized that the kids were just like any other kid and became less afraid of them, both parties learned to come together around something positive for their neighborhood. \r\n\r\nOther attitudes that compete against us is apathy, neighborhood gentrification and the desire to normalize neighborhoods.  With respect to apathy our most successful tool to compete aginst that has been the completion of a pilot projects.  Once neighbors in the surrounding neighborhoods walked by and saw how we transformed an alley they came to us asking when and how they could do a project like their in their neighborhood.  They saw how simple, effective and quickly this can be done.  They realized how by using skills within their own neighborhoods how much ownership and control over a public space they could have in creating something positive and useful for local community residents. We already have 4 other neighborhoods wanting to start projects.\r\n\r\nGiven that Boyle Heights is ½ mile east of downtown LA, it has been the target of 11 redevelopment projects since 1996.  It has seen an investment of close to 4 billion dollar of public funds on these projects.  This has created significant change in our neighborhoods.  With this change has come the desire to normalize our neighborhood so that it looks like other neighborhoods. Our DIY projects will help to maintain the culture and community that resides in Boyle Heights.  Each of the three alleys that we have already transformed have very different identifying projects that were tailored to the needs of the residents who live in those areas.  Though one project created a placita, another one lined the alley with planters, and another one created booths in which vendors could sell on weekends. Our DIY projects allow for the flexibility  of residents to determine how best to transform the alley into a safe and creative public space that can be shared by all.\r\n"
  - name: vision
    label: ''
    explanation: ''
    answer: >-
      Success for us would be that every alley in Boyle Heights would have a
      group of dedicated community members working to maintain and transform
      their alley.  Success would mean that there are physical improvement
      projects that were built in the alleys such as solar lighting, greening of
      the alleys, street furniture, bulletin boards, etc.  Success would mean
      that    community members would organize activities in the alleys so that
      the space was not just a place for cars and trash but a place to come
      together and build community. Success would mean that other communities in
      Los Angeles would grasp this form of transformative change and replicate
      it in their local neighborhoods.
  - name: EIN
    label: EIN
    explanation: ''
    answer: 52-2076978
  - name: Tax Status
    label: Are you a for profit organization or non-profit organization?
    explanation: ''
    answer: ' Non-profit organization'
  - name: about_you
    label: 'City, State'
    explanation: 'NULL'
    answer: 'Los Angeles, CA'
  - name: Does your project impact Los Angeles County?
    label: Does your project impact Los Angeles County?
    explanation: Does your project impact Los Angeles County?
    answer: 'yes'
body_class: strawberry
project_summary: "In 2000 we won a Best Practice award for our community organizing from the United Nations’ Huairou Commission. In our model, solutions to a problem are developed by those most affected.  It places the community first and at the center of our work. We take a bottom up approach. We start with the community’s understanding of their problems and engage the community in addressing these issues. We organize block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood and bring this network together.  We do this through reflection, action, analysis and start again with each phase bringing new information.  Through this process community members learn to negotiate and prioritize their demands amongst themselves. Our organizing campaigns as identified by our community members include the following: preservation of healthy affordable housing; the right to clean water; the right to clean air; and the right to safe and healthy neighborhoods. \r\n\r\nThe Bienestar committees success in transforming their alley clearly demonstrated the potential for creating healthy alleys through the do-it-yourself community action our long organizing history makes possible.   In addition to this we have the following accomplishments:\r\n\r\nEJ and Neighborhood Health and Safety\r\no\tNeighborhood base improvements,  Installed physical improvements to transform the use of 5 alleys in Boyle Heights and identified 6 more to begin transformation this year\r\no\tNegotiated to reduce costly police engagement in neighborhood activity in our community\r\no\tReduced  violence and fear on Fickett St without criminalization or police intervention through neighborhood occupation\r\no\tWorked with Environmental Justice Coalition for Water and Assemblyman John Perez to pass a state law allowing for the City of Maywood to have more regulatory powers over the water companies\r\no\tGained support from Assemblyman Rendon to develop a policy to create a public water district in Maywood\r\no\tOrganized and won two new parks in the City of Maywood; \r\no\tPassed a law in the City of Maywood that allows street vendors to obtain vending permits;  \r\no\tReprioritized how the City of LA distributed resources for basic services;\r\n\r\n\r\nHousing\r\no\tTrained and developed  tenants to understand RSO Regulations and the city’s inspection processes.\r\no\tIdentified and worked with 188 tenants during their inspection processes in the last year\r\no\tWith LACAN, formed an LA Citywide multi-cultural coalition that puts homeless, tenants, and public housing residents voices at the front of the struggle to expand rent control rights and protect public housing.\r\no\tSuccessful in swearing in one of our members as a Housing Authority of City of LA Board of Commissioner (HACLA);\r\no\tStopped HACLA’s elimination of public housing for a 3 year period;\r\no\tPassed 2 advisory measures in Maywood protecting families from the demolition of their homes; \r\no\tOrganized, drafted, and passed Just Cause Ordinance in the City "

---
