---
published: true
organization_id: '2013184'
year_submitted: 2013
indicator: ' Education'
body_class: strawberry
project_id: '3102245'
title: 'Education by Nature: Los Angeles'
project_summary: "CNI’s mission is to educate children, families, and their communities through interactive experiences with nature and to cultivate respect and responsibility for the natural environment.  We are the only organization in Los Angeles that focuses exclusively on environmental education for young children during their most impressionable years: birth through age 8. CNI works with more than 100 schools, early-education centers and social service agencies to serve 15,000 children each year. We focus on reaching children in underserved communities to share with them the wonder of nature as a tool for academic achievement, personal growth, and community building.\r\nCNI was founded in 1985 by three mothers who were anxious to find ways to teach young children about nature outside of the classroom. We have been at the forefront of the movement to connect children with nature ever since. The organization was run by a core group of volunteers that led young families on walks at area parks and beaches. After the Los Angeles riots in 1992, motivated by the call for equity, justice and inclusion, CNI launched the outreach Nature Discovery Program to give children from low-income neighborhoods and academically low-ranking schools of Los Angeles the opportunity to learn science, math and reading skills through experiences with the natural world.  In 2000, CNI added a traveling classroom called the WonderMobile to the program (a visit that includes live animals and various natural artifacts).\r\n          In 2010, CNI became the \"environmental arm\" of the Magnolia Place Family Center. As part of the groundbreaking Magnolia Community Initiative, CNI actively collaborates within a network of more than 70 service providers to improve the quality of life, including educational outcomes, for the 100,000 people living within a 500-block radius of the Center.  CNI offers a wide range of hands-on activities for families living in West Adams, Pico-Union, and the North Figueroa Corridor. These communities represent some of Los Angeles County's most challenged neighborhoods with historically low educational access and a high rate of families living at or below the federal poverty level. We have served more than 350,000 children, their parents, and teachers in the greater Los Angeles area since we started, and show no signs of slowing down. \r\n\tJoining MCI gave CNI the latitude and capability to embark on the leadership role for ExN:LA, a collaboration modeled on MCI and focused on bringing continuous, high-quality environmental education to schools throughout Los Angeles. Now in its second year, ExN:LA has grown to include the entire 2nd and 3rd grades at 2 schools, 6 partner organizations and the MCI network of collaborators and community. ExN:LA is part of national Education by Nature umbrella with iterations throughout California, Hawaii and Massachusetts, each of which is designed to meet the specific needs of its community, and to share best practices and ideas with each other"
project_image: 'https://img.youtube.com/vi/xF48V9enLaE/hqdefault.jpg'
project_video: 'https://www.youtube.com/embed/xF48V9enLaE'
maker_answers:
  website: www.discoverybynature.org
  success: "Our evaluation plan includes pre- and post-tests on program efficacy. We have contracted with evaluators from UCLA, USC, and ETI Consultants to help us design and implement our evaluation goals.\r\nWe want to evaluate: student experiences, and the educational value therein; student understanding and perception of their relationship with the environment; how environmental educational is intrinsic to child, family and community development; deficiencies and remediation within the collaborative models.\r\nWe intend to: share all results online and at public events; provide feedback for partners and funders. Ultimately, we will move education away from achieving grades and onto learning, and show how this is especially important in very young learners.\r\n"
  Indicator: ' Education'
  brief: "The goal of this application is to fund the further development and expansion of the Los Angeles iteration of Education by Nature, a national model aimed at increasing STEM learning opportunities. In LA, we are focusing on bringing STEM education opportunities to underserved LA schools while cultivating scaffolded, leveraged collaboration between nonprofit organizations. By facilitating coordination among multiple nonprofit natural science education organizations, the Education by Nature: Los Angeles (ExN:LA) model links the existing science programs of multiple organizations, focuses those programs on the same classrooms, and ensures that programs build on each other. Together, ExN:LA partners deliver more hours of STEM instruction to classrooms than any one organization has the capacity to provide.  ExN:LA, led locally by The Children’s Nature Institute (CNI), is now in its second successful implementation year reaching 1,260 students and 37 teachers across 2 diverse Los Angeles communities in Council Districts 1 and 4.    \r\n This groundbreaking model changes the way programs are delivered to students. It shifts delivery from the traditional method of one-time, sporadic, and variable classroom services (based on individual teachers’ requests) to a strategic, comprehensive and sustainable model of educating for depth, providing a wealth of integrated high-quality programs to schools in need. We would like to expand the reach of ExN:LA to further impact the educational markers that are intrinsic to LA student success such as subject learning, overall enjoyment of learning, and environmental stewardship. We also want to learn which components of ExN:LA are specific to Los Angeles, so we can focus on developing those. An award from myLA2050 will be used to fund further model replication throughout Los Angeles Unified School District. \r\nCurrently, ExN:LA focuses on young children – age 0-8 – in school, and their families, helping them all develop scientific habits of mind as required by the Common Core State Standards. As ExN:LA grows, we will expand to include programming for students of all ages. Partner curricula are vetted to be sure they capitalize on children’s innate, are in alignment with the standards and are scaffolded to specific learning objectives specified by teachers. Children learn about their environment, raising awareness about environmental issues in their communities. They develop fine motor skills and engineering mindsets by constructing their own learning tools ranging from watershed models to up-cycled paper bag forests. Children learn to ask questions and to reason through to the answers; to make observations and to communicate their thinking. They develop confidence to share ideas and to disagree constructively. This model helps teachers and students address necessary material -- both content knowledge and habits of mind – that are necessary for their ongoing success and that are specified in the Common Core.\r\nExN:LA lessons come through the lens of environmental stewardship, and focus in part on changing and measuring behavior. By teaching students, parents and teachers to think critically about the environment and their role in it, we hope to instill in them an understanding of and love for the natural world around them. Through ExN:LA, people learn scientific facts and behaviors that will enable them to act on their own behalf and on behalf of the environment, and to see how the two are very much intertwined. Part of our ongoing evaluation will measure which lessons result in the greatest content learning and the greatest behavior changes, so we can disseminate that knowledge to our partner organizations to ensure that our environmental education partners are all utilizing best practices throughout LA.\r\nCNI is physically housed within the Magnolia Place Family Center, which is also the home of the Magnolia Community Initiative (MCI). MCI is a 70+ partner collaboration focused in the Council District 1 Pico-Union community to learn “What would it take to have the 35,000 children living in the 500 blocks of the Magnolia Catchment Area break all records of success in their education, health, and the quality of nurturing care and economic stability they receive from their families and community.”  MCI is designed to galvanize the community and organize partners to neighborhood development, rather than distribute services, and fosters working in innovative ways. CNI is the “green arm” and active participant in MCI, striving to work with the community infuse environmental learning and awareness into neighborhood and family development. MCI’s initiative design has informed our guiding principles as we construct the ExN:LA collaboration. Overlaying ExN:LA to some of the schools within the Magnolia Catchment Area adds value to both models and helps us streamline, utilize best practices, and collaborate with a variety of partners and stakeholders. "
  budget explanation: "Proposed Budget to expand ExN:LA impact by approximately 650 students in 27 classrooms across Los Angeles Unified School District in the next school year:\r\n\r\nCost\t:       Justification\r\n\r\n$12,000:\tProgram Director salary; Site coordination; Outreach and meetings with schools and leaders from LAUSD (26% of Program Director annual salary) \r\n\r\n$52,992: Program staff salary, Field trip buses, Materials, Lesson plan and curriculum development (100% of (1) Environmental Educator salary, 54% of Education Manager salary and $3,060 for 9 buses)\r\n\r\n$10,700: Stipends for Evaluators and Collaboration consultants (from UCLA, ETI Consulting and an MCI Consultant) \r\n\r\n$24,308: Nonprofit partner sub-awards (Partners receive $300 per classroom.  $300 x 27 classrooms x 3 partners each classroom)\r\n\r\n \r\n$100,000: TOTAL \t\r\n"
  description: "ExN:LA is a local model that meets the needs of the students, schools and communities served by the Los Angeles Unified School District.  Since 1985, CNI has served over 300,000 LAUSD students with our free, outreach Nature Discovery Program and our weekly Community Nature Programs at the Magnolia Place Family Center. We know first-hand the struggles of working within such a large district and the disenfranchisement of our community. ExN:LA is built on the idea that, to improve education, LA-based nonprofit partners, teachers, students and families must work together.  Evidence shows the only way to truly affect large-scale reform, whether in education, community or family development is to shift from “program delivery” to participating in a “community of practice.” U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan says, “When families learn together and where schools truly become the heart and center of a neighborhood – a community anchor- there are tremendous dividends for children.”\r\nExN:LA is exactly this kind of community anchor. Lesson plans focus on local issues, including nature in LA, the interplay of the city and its waterways, growing food in schoolyards, and changing human behavior to positively impact the world around us. The children we teach are concrete learners – they understand best the things they can see and touch. Project based learning helps children understand their place in the world and develop a connection to its care. \r\n ExN:LA helps teachers expose their students to STEM-based thinking that builds future success. Opportunities include modeling of scientific logic; professional development workshops; field trips; and lesson plans aligned with state curricula. ExN:LA benefits Los Angeles by improving the educational framework at large, making STEM subjects more accessible and addressing many of the issues we’ve had teaching STEM subjects to LA’s children. \r\nA 2011 RAND study “Preschool Adequacy and Efficiency in California,” found that 40-60% of California’s 2nd and 3rd graders are not proficient in core subjects, including STEM. Larger gaps exist for socioeconomically disadvantaged groups, including Latinos, African-Americans and English language learners, the main demographics in our community. These achievement gaps have early roots: the groups who are behind in third grade were behind when they entered kindergarten.  \r\nA 2012 fact-sheet from Preschool California supports that claim, stating that early experiences –from the time children are born to the first day of kindergarten – shape whether a child’s brain develops a strong foundation for the learning, health and behavior that follow. “Early interventions for disadvantaged children are more economically efficient and produce higher returns than remedial programs to help teenagers and young adults catch up later on,” writes to James Heckman, of the University of Chicago and Nobel Laureate in Economics.  ExN:LA focuses on science and nature experiences for LA’s youngest learners."
  collaborators: "Current ExN:LA nonprofit partners include Heal the Bay, California Science Center, Natural History Museum of LA County, reDiscover Center, EnrichLA,  Gibbon Conservation Center, Farms to Preschool and Los Angeles Neighborhood Land Trust. Education stakeholders such as teachers, students and community members are also essential to the robust efficacy of the model.  The Magnolia Community Initiative network of agencies, evaluators and community development consultants are also our partners.  \r\nThe expansion to 27 more LAUSD classrooms as this proposal outlines will require us to engage 6-10 more environmental education partners.  We will also continue efforts to cultivate a formal partner relationship with the LAUSD District itself.  \r\n"
  Organization Name: The Children's Nature Institute
  description1: "CNI’s mission is to educate children, families, and their communities through interactive experiences with nature and to cultivate respect and responsibility for the natural environment.  We are the only organization in Los Angeles that focuses exclusively on environmental education for young children during their most impressionable years: birth through age 8. CNI works with more than 100 schools, early-education centers and social service agencies to serve 15,000 children each year. We focus on reaching children in underserved communities to share with them the wonder of nature as a tool for academic achievement, personal growth, and community building.\r\nCNI was founded in 1985 by three mothers who were anxious to find ways to teach young children about nature outside of the classroom. We have been at the forefront of the movement to connect children with nature ever since. The organization was run by a core group of volunteers that led young families on walks at area parks and beaches. After the Los Angeles riots in 1992, motivated by the call for equity, justice and inclusion, CNI launched the outreach Nature Discovery Program to give children from low-income neighborhoods and academically low-ranking schools of Los Angeles the opportunity to learn science, math and reading skills through experiences with the natural world.  In 2000, CNI added a traveling classroom called the WonderMobile to the program (a visit that includes live animals and various natural artifacts).\r\n          In 2010, CNI became the \"environmental arm\" of the Magnolia Place Family Center. As part of the groundbreaking Magnolia Community Initiative, CNI actively collaborates within a network of more than 70 service providers to improve the quality of life, including educational outcomes, for the 100,000 people living within a 500-block radius of the Center.  CNI offers a wide range of hands-on activities for families living in West Adams, Pico-Union, and the North Figueroa Corridor. These communities represent some of Los Angeles County's most challenged neighborhoods with historically low educational access and a high rate of families living at or below the federal poverty level. We have served more than 350,000 children, their parents, and teachers in the greater Los Angeles area since we started, and show no signs of slowing down. \r\n\tJoining MCI gave CNI the latitude and capability to embark on the leadership role for ExN:LA, a collaboration modeled on MCI and focused on bringing continuous, high-quality environmental education to schools throughout Los Angeles. Now in its second year, ExN:LA has grown to include the entire 2nd and 3rd grades at 2 schools, 6 partner organizations and the MCI network of collaborators and community. ExN:LA is part of national Education by Nature umbrella with iterations throughout California, Hawaii and Massachusetts, each of which is designed to meet the specific needs of its community, and to share best practices and ideas with each other"
  description3: "Our competition is the status quo. ExN:LA was created, in part, to address that competition head on for students, teachers, the community, and nonprofit partners. \r\nOur competition says that children must meet certain standards; that young students don’t need to learn about science. It thinks any change in the prescribed curricula will negatively impact test scores. According to the 2009 International Student Assessment, U.S. students are ranked 21st in science and 25th in math of 30 developed countries. Low-income and minority students perform even lower in STEM subjects. \r\nOur competition believes teachers don’t act in the best interest of their students. It dictates from afar what should happen in LA classrooms, without understanding the community. \r\nOur competition doesn’t know much about our community. It has written off our low-income families. \r\nOur competition says that organizations doing good work should compete against each other for the funding. \r\nExN:LA addresses the status quo by building collaboration, instead of competition. The strength and effectiveness of working in collaboration are well documented, and the trend is growing.  Ben Hecht, President and CEO of Living Cities, wrote in a recent Harvard Business Review blog, that this trend is emerging as a result of two things: 1) information on what works to solve complex societal issues, and 2) growing frustration among people “fed up with the dysfunction around them, [who]come together to challenge conventional wisdom and fix problems long written off as unsolvable, such as… a failing education system.” \r\nAlexa Clay and Roshan Paul published in the Stanford Social Innovation Review that “open innovation and communities are characterized by transparent communication, decentralized decision making and widely distributed action.”\r\nExN:LA harnesses our knowledge and applies it to our schools. ExN:LA attempts to address these issues by making STEM education available to everyone. Early childhood is when children learn to think, ask questions, and ponder answers. ExN:LA affords  traditionally low-performing students the ability to develop habits of mind necessary for them to excel. We aslo create a student population more environmentally aware, academically enriched, and proficient in science. ExN:LA empowers teachers to act in their students’ best interest. ExN:LA offers support to teachers in the form of both visits from our nonprofit partners and professional development courses that boost teacher comfort in STEM disciplines . ExN:LA works with the community to bring STEM opportunities where they are needed. We run programming with the neighborhood ambassadors and the many family enrichment classes. We actively participate in a collaborative network designed to empower residents to improve their own environments. Simultaneously, we strive to teach our neighbors about the environment and their role in it, in the hopes of influencing behavior change towards environmental conservation. \r\n"
  vision: "Success in the year 2050 includes all children having access to “collaborative education” that increases exposure to project based learning, outdoor enrichment, and allows them to ask and answer their own questions. Schools would be full of hands-on, age-appropriate activities, that channel children’s innate curiosity into their learning. We believe that education should teach students to “be scientists” – to be curious and to continually investigate answers to their questions – about everything around them. This should be our educational status-quo.  We want to be part of bringing opportunities where they aren’t currently, in the hopes that we can help develop the resources and the community to provide for themselves. Success in 2050, for us, would include components of self-sufficiency as well as our continued presence and community building. \r\nSpecifically, we would like the philosophy behind ExN:LA to have spread throughout LAUSD while other iterations of Education by Nature have spread throughout the state and the country. In this successful vision of 2050, all children have access to high quality education, and they are learning to think more critically and behave more environmentally. Schools and other education partners have learned to work collaboratively with each other and across sectors, and kids are benefiting from their efforts.  Teachers – both formal and informal – are able to share best practices, while non-profit partners share resources across the board. There is trust, there is room for experimentation, there is real learning. \r\n\tAnother indicator of success would be that Education by Nature is no longer the primary access to environmental programming for our students. We hope that our partner organizations – even the ones that do not focus on environmental education – will pick up our example and use our lessons in their own work. Whether nature hunts or walks with families, it is very easy to engage a community through the environment around them. We hope that by 2050 we will have set a clear enough example and provided enough resources that we won’t be the only ones utilizing environmental education to build our community. \r\nFinally, we’d like to see not only our students and our partners making good environmental and education decisions, but our community as well. We’d like to see the parents throughout Los Angeles have the ability, desire, and understanding to create the kinds of surroundings – educational and otherwise – for their children that they’d like. We’d like our community to make good decisions for itself, including educational and environmental ones. ExN:LA aims to teach children to think like scientists, but also to teach caregivers and guardians to gently guide children’s education. Success in 2050 would be to see real progress in each of these areas. "
  EIN: 95-4320598
  Tax Status: ' Non-profit organization'
  about_you: 'Los Angeles, CA'
  Does your project impact Los Angeles County?: 'yes'
What is your idea and how will it impact your indicator?: >-
  The goal of this application is to fund the further development and expansion
  of the Los Angeles iteration of Education by Nature, a national model aimed at
  increasing STEM learning opportunities. In LA, we are focusing on bringing
  STEM education opportunities to underserved LA schools while cultivating
  scaffolded, leveraged collaboration between nonprofit organizations. By
  facilitating coordination among multiple nonprofit natural science education
  organizations, the Education by Nature: Los Angeles (ExN:LA) model links the
  existing science programs of multiple organizations, focuses those programs on
  the same classrooms, and ensures that programs build on each other. Together,
  ExN:LA partners deliver more hours of STEM instruction to classrooms than any
  one organization has the capacity to provide.  ExN:LA, led locally by The
  Children’s Nature Institute (CNI), is now in its second successful
  implementation year reaching 1,260 students and 37 teachers across 2 diverse
  Los Angeles communities in Council Districts 1 and 4.    


   This groundbreaking model changes the way programs are delivered to students. It shifts delivery from the traditional method of one-time, sporadic, and variable classroom services (based on individual teachers’ requests) to a strategic, comprehensive and sustainable model of educating for depth, providing a wealth of integrated high-quality programs to schools in need. We would like to expand the reach of ExN:LA to further impact the educational markers that are intrinsic to LA student success such as subject learning, overall enjoyment of learning, and environmental stewardship. We also want to learn which components of ExN:LA are specific to Los Angeles, so we can focus on developing those. An award from myLA2050 will be used to fund further model replication throughout Los Angeles Unified School District. 


  Currently, ExN:LA focuses on young children — age 0-8 — in school, and their
  families, helping them all develop scientific habits of mind as required by
  the Common Core State Standards. As ExN:LA grows, we will expand to include
  programming for students of all ages. Partner curricula are vetted to be sure
  they capitalize on children’s innate, are in alignment with the standards and
  are scaffolded to specific learning objectives specified by teachers. Children
  learn about their environment, raising awareness about environmental issues in
  their communities. They develop fine motor skills and engineering mindsets by
  constructing their own learning tools ranging from watershed models to
  up-cycled paper bag forests. Children learn to ask questions and to reason
  through to the answers; to make observations and to communicate their
  thinking. They develop confidence to share ideas and to disagree
  constructively. This model helps teachers and students address necessary
  material -- both content knowledge and habits of mind — that are necessary for
  their ongoing success and that are specified in the Common Core.



  ExN:LA lessons come through the lens of environmental stewardship, and focus
  in part on changing and measuring behavior. By teaching students, parents and
  teachers to think critically about the environment and their role in it, we
  hope to instill in them an understanding of and love for the natural world
  around them. Through ExN:LA, people learn scientific facts and behaviors that
  will enable them to act on their own behalf and on behalf of the environment,
  and to see how the two are very much intertwined. Part of our ongoing
  evaluation will measure which lessons result in the greatest content learning
  and the greatest behavior changes, so we can disseminate that knowledge to our
  partner organizations to ensure that our environmental education partners are
  all utilizing best practices throughout LA.



  CNI is physically housed within the Magnolia Place Family Center, which is
  also the home of the Magnolia Community Initiative (MCI). MCI is a 70+ partner
  collaboration focused in the Council District 1 Pico-Union community to learn
  “What would it take to have the 35,000 children living in the 500 blocks of
  the Magnolia Catchment Area break all records of success in their education,
  health, and the quality of nurturing care and economic stability they receive
  from their families and community.”  MCI is designed to galvanize the
  community and organize partners to neighborhood development, rather than
  distribute services, and fosters working in innovative ways. CNI is the “green
  arm” and active participant in MCI, striving to work with the community infuse
  environmental learning and awareness into neighborhood and family development.
  MCI’s initiative design has informed our guiding principles as we construct
  the ExN:LA collaboration. Overlaying ExN:LA to some of the schools within the
  Magnolia Catchment Area adds value to both models and helps us streamline,
  utilize best practices, and collaborate with a variety of partners and
  stakeholders. 
What are some of your organization’s most important achievements to date?: "CNI’s mission is to educate children, families, and their communities through interactive experiences with nature and to cultivate respect and responsibility for the natural environment.  We are the only organization in Los Angeles that focuses exclusively on environmental education for young children during their most impressionable years: birth through age 8. CNI works with more than 100 schools, early-education centers and social service agencies to serve 15,000 children each year. We focus on reaching children in underserved communities to share with them the wonder of nature as a tool for academic achievement, personal growth, and community building.\n\n\nCNI was founded in 1985 by three mothers who were anxious to find ways to teach young children about nature outside of the classroom. We have been at the forefront of the movement to connect children with nature ever since. The organization was run by a core group of volunteers that led young families on walks at area parks and beaches. After the Los Angeles riots in 1992, motivated by the call for equity, justice and inclusion, CNI launched the outreach Nature Discovery Program to give children from low-income neighborhoods and academically low-ranking schools of Los Angeles the opportunity to learn science, math and reading skills through experiences with the natural world.  In 2000, CNI added a traveling classroom called the WonderMobile to the program (a visit that includes live animals and various natural artifacts).\n\n\n          In 2010, CNI became the \"environmental arm\" of the Magnolia Place Family Center. As part of the groundbreaking Magnolia Community Initiative, CNI actively collaborates within a network of more than 70 service providers to improve the quality of life, including educational outcomes, for the 100,000 people living within a 500-block radius of the Center.  CNI offers a wide range of hands-on activities for families living in West Adams, Pico-Union, and the North Figueroa Corridor. These communities represent some of Los Angeles County's most challenged neighborhoods with historically low educational access and a high rate of families living at or below the federal poverty level. We have served more than 350,000 children, their parents, and teachers in the greater Los Angeles area since we started, and show no signs of slowing down. \n\n\n\tJoining MCI gave CNI the latitude and capability to embark on the leadership role for ExN:LA, a collaboration modeled on MCI and focused on bringing continuous, high-quality environmental education to schools throughout Los Angeles. Now in its second year, ExN:LA has grown to include the entire 2nd and 3rd grades at 2 schools, 6 partner organizations and the MCI network of collaborators and community. ExN:LA is part of national Education by Nature umbrella with iterations throughout California, Hawaii and Massachusetts, each of which is designed to meet the specific needs of its community, and to share best practices and ideas with each other"
Please identify any partners or collaborators who will work with you on this project.: >+
  Current ExN:LA nonprofit partners include Heal the Bay, California Science
  Center, Natural History Museum of LA County, reDiscover Center, EnrichLA, 
  Gibbon Conservation Center, Farms to Preschool and Los Angeles Neighborhood
  Land Trust. Education stakeholders such as teachers, students and community
  members are also essential to the robust efficacy of the model.  The Magnolia
  Community Initiative network of agencies, evaluators and community development
  consultants are also our partners.  



  The expansion to 27 more LAUSD classrooms as this proposal outlines will
  require us to engage 6-10 more environmental education partners.  We will also
  continue efforts to cultivate a formal partner relationship with the LAUSD
  District itself.  


Please explain how you will evaluate your project. How will you measure success?: >+
  Our evaluation plan includes pre- and post-tests on program efficacy. We have
  contracted with evaluators from UCLA, USC, and ETI Consultants to help us
  design and implement our evaluation goals.



  We want to evaluate: student experiences, and the educational value therein;
  student understanding and perception of their relationship with the
  environment; how environmental educational is intrinsic to child, family and
  community development; deficiencies and remediation within the collaborative
  models.



  We intend to: share all results online and at public events; provide feedback
  for partners and funders. Ultimately, we will move education away from
  achieving grades and onto learning, and show how this is especially important
  in very young learners.


How will your project benefit Los Angeles? Please be specific.: >-
  ExN:LA is a local model that meets the needs of the students, schools and
  communities served by the Los Angeles Unified School District.  Since 1985,
  CNI has served over 300,000 LAUSD students with our free, outreach Nature
  Discovery Program and our weekly Community Nature Programs at the Magnolia
  Place Family Center. We know first-hand the struggles of working within such a
  large district and the disenfranchisement of our community. ExN:LA is built on
  the idea that, to improve education, LA-based nonprofit partners, teachers,
  students and families must work together.  Evidence shows the only way to
  truly affect large-scale reform, whether in education, community or family
  development is to shift from “program delivery” to participating in a
  “community of practice.” U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan says, “When
  families learn together and where schools truly become the heart and center of
  a neighborhood — a community anchor- there are tremendous dividends for
  children.”



  ExN:LA is exactly this kind of community anchor. Lesson plans focus on local
  issues, including nature in LA, the interplay of the city and its waterways,
  growing food in schoolyards, and changing human behavior to positively impact
  the world around us. The children we teach are concrete learners — they
  understand best the things they can see and touch. Project based learning
  helps children understand their place in the world and develop a connection to
  its care. 


   ExN:LA helps teachers expose their students to STEM-based thinking that builds future success. Opportunities include modeling of scientific logic; professional development workshops; field trips; and lesson plans aligned with state curricula. ExN:LA benefits Los Angeles by improving the educational framework at large, making STEM subjects more accessible and addressing many of the issues we’ve had teaching STEM subjects to LA’s children. 


  A 2011 RAND study “Preschool Adequacy and Efficiency in California,” found
  that 40-60% of California’s 2nd and 3rd graders are not proficient in core
  subjects, including STEM. Larger gaps exist for socioeconomically
  disadvantaged groups, including Latinos, African-Americans and English
  language learners, the main demographics in our community. These achievement
  gaps have early roots: the groups who are behind in third grade were behind
  when they entered kindergarten.  



  A 2012 fact-sheet from Preschool California supports that claim, stating that
  early experiences —from the time children are born to the first day of
  kindergarten — shape whether a child’s brain develops a strong foundation for
  the learning, health and behavior that follow. “Early interventions for
  disadvantaged children are more economically efficient and produce higher
  returns than remedial programs to help teenagers and young adults catch up
  later on,” writes to James Heckman, of the University of Chicago and Nobel
  Laureate in Economics.  ExN:LA focuses on science and nature experiences for
  LA’s youngest learners.
What would success look like in the year 2050 regarding your indicator?: "Success in the year 2050 includes all children having access to “collaborative education” that increases exposure to project based learning, outdoor enrichment, and allows them to ask and answer their own questions. Schools would be full of hands-on, age-appropriate activities, that channel children’s innate curiosity into their learning. We believe that education should teach students to “be scientists” — to be curious and to continually investigate answers to their questions — about everything around them. This should be our educational status-quo.  We want to be part of bringing opportunities where they aren’t currently, in the hopes that we can help develop the resources and the community to provide for themselves. Success in 2050, for us, would include components of self-sufficiency as well as our continued presence and community building. \n\n\nSpecifically, we would like the philosophy behind ExN:LA to have spread throughout LAUSD while other iterations of Education by Nature have spread throughout the state and the country. In this successful vision of 2050, all children have access to high quality education, and they are learning to think more critically and behave more environmentally. Schools and other education partners have learned to work collaboratively with each other and across sectors, and kids are benefiting from their efforts.  Teachers — both formal and informal — are able to share best practices, while non-profit partners share resources across the board. There is trust, there is room for experimentation, there is real learning. \n\n\n\tAnother indicator of success would be that Education by Nature is no longer the primary access to environmental programming for our students. We hope that our partner organizations — even the ones that do not focus on environmental education — will pick up our example and use our lessons in their own work. Whether nature hunts or walks with families, it is very easy to engage a community through the environment around them. We hope that by 2050 we will have set a clear enough example and provided enough resources that we won’t be the only ones utilizing environmental education to build our community. \n\n\nFinally, we’d like to see not only our students and our partners making good environmental and education decisions, but our community as well. We’d like to see the parents throughout Los Angeles have the ability, desire, and understanding to create the kinds of surroundings — educational and otherwise — for their children that they’d like. We’d like our community to make good decisions for itself, including educational and environmental ones. ExN:LA aims to teach children to think like scientists, but also to teach caregivers and guardians to gently guide children’s education. Success in 2050 would be to see real progress in each of these areas. "
youtube_video_identifier: xF48V9enLaE

---
