---
published: true
organization_id: '2013165'
year_submitted: 2013
indicator: ' Education'
body_class: strawberry
project_id: '3102091'
title: LA Kids Rock!
project_summary: "Our dream is that every child learns to read and gains confidence with numbers... these are life's essentials. We believe technology can dramatically help and that the best way to do it is to make it lots of fun and to make it free! We are committed to making great learning resources accessible to every child.\r\n\r\nPrior to founding Skoolbo in 2010, Shane Hill also founded Mathletics and World Math Day. These programs have seen millions of children from around the world participate in fun learning events and they have demonstrated highly rapid improvement.\r\n\r\nOver the last three years Skoolbo has created the world's largest educational game. Our focus is literacy and numeracy for 4 to 10 year olds. Shortly we will be adding 26 languages to the Skoolbo platform.\r\n\r\nSkoolbo was invited to be part of the Global Social Innovators Accelerator program, a sub-strand of the Global Social Innovators Forum 2012 (GSIF). GSIF is the foremost forum on social enterprise and innovation in Asia and it aims to create a community of change-makers for sustainable and meaningful impact.\r\n\r\nIn 2012, Skoolbo organized an online educational event named Smartest Singapore for Singapore primary school children. The event partners were Samsung, Microsoft, Collins, the Media Development Authority of Singapore, and several regional and local businesses.  Within one month, children from 118 primary schools in Singapore answered correctly a total of 2,725,288 questions on Smartest Singapore. There was an average improvement of 42.6% among children who played more than 100 games.\r\n\r\nIn February 2013, Shane Hill was honored with the Social Innovation Leadership Award at World CSR Congress and Awards 2013 in Mumbai, India. This is the most prestigious award an individual can receive for contribution in Corporate Social Responsibility. The World CSR Congress brings over 130 countries under one roof to unite and celebrate leadership in building a better society and making a better world.\r\n \r\nIn March 2013, Shane Hill was invited to speak at the Global Education & Skills Forum (GESF), Dubai. Shane co-presented with Senator David Coltart, Minister of Education, Zimbabwe and Dr. Matthew Kam, Senior Technology Strategist, American Institutes for Research, Washington D.C., in a session titled “Smarter Content, Better Learning”. The GESF aimed to explore how governments and the private sector can work together to create real, sustainable and scalable education change in developing countries at global and local levels. The GESF was keynoted by Bill Clinton and attended by more than fifty Heads of State / Education Ministers.\r\n  \r\nIn September 2013 Skoolbo will be hosting FriendOurWorld.org which is a collaboration with Peace One Day and Microsoft. Children from across the world will unite and play friendship games of geography, languages and culture on the Skoolbo platform. We anticipate this will be one of the largest educational events ever held.\r\n"
project_image: 'https://img.youtube.com/vi/Jw8-KCURHUA/hqdefault.jpg'
project_video: 'https://www.youtube.com/embed/Jw8-KCURHUA'
maker_answers:
  website: www.skoolbo.com
  success: "LA Kids Rock! will measure itself on a number of short and long term metrics.\r\n\r\nPhase 1 – 2013      (The initial LA Kids Rock! 2013 event)\r\n•\tTotal Participants\r\nTarget: Hundred thousand children in Greater Los Angeles Area.\r\n•\tTotal Correct Answers\r\nTarget: 50 million correct answers in reading and math.\r\n•\tTotal Learning Time\r\nTarget: A quarter of million learning hours.\r\n•\tLearning Improvement\r\nTarget: Average improvement in reading and math greater than 20%.\r\n•\tSustainable Ongoing LA Kids Rock!\r\nA fundamental goal of LA Kids Rock! is to develop a self sustaining model where every child can participate and benefit. \r\n\r\nPhase 2 – 2014 and Beyond      (Sustainable Ongoing LA Kids Rock!)\r\n•\tTotal Participants\r\nTarget: One million children in Greater Los Angeles Area by 2015.\r\n•\tTest Scores\r\nTarget: Los Angeles Unified School district to achieve the benchmark 800 in the overall Academic Performance Index (API) by 2017.*\r\n•\tReduce Disparity\r\nTarget: By 2017 achieve a 30% reduction in disparity levels between both African American and Latino students with White students. In 2011 the API gap between White and African American was 186, while for White and Latino it was 163.\r\n•\tGraduation Rates\r\nTarget: By 2024 achieve 85% high school graduation rate for LAUSD.\r\n\r\nIn addition to the above quantitative metrics we will be seeking periodic feedback from teachers, parents and students.\r\n\r\nWe will work with a university or research agency (eg American Institutes for Research) to study our data and help determine ways to further improve.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n* LA Kids Rock! is inclusive and will be pitched at all elementary children within the Greater Los Angeles Area (Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino, Riverside and Ventura counties). For measurement purposes we will use data from LAUSD – the largest school district.\r\n"
  Indicator: ' Education'
  brief: "We want to end the cycle of under-achievement and prove that LA kids really can “ROCK” in their learning! \r\n\r\nLA Kids Rock! will be an online extravaganza for elementary students to come together in fun reading and math games. LA Kids Rock!  will take place from 15 October to 15 December, 2013.\r\n\r\nWe are passionate in our belief that every child can learn to read and gain confidence with numbers. We also believe firmly in the African proverb “It takes a village to raise a child.” LA Kids Rock! will mobilize community role models and celebrities to help motivate the children. We need everyone to play their part to help children love learning and reach their potential.\r\n\r\nLA Kids Rock! will be completely free of charge for the more than 1.2 million elementary school children in the Greater Los Angeles Area (Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino, Riverside and Ventura counties). We expect more than 100,000 children will take part.  \r\n\r\nLA Kids Rock! will be based on two fundamental premises:\r\n\r\n1)\tChildren do best when learning is fun.\r\n2)\tPositive affirmation is essential.\r\n\r\nWe will use a specially customized version of the Skoolbo eLearning platform. Skoolbo is the largest ever educational game and since its launch in June 2012, has been attracting both rapid growth and extremely high levels of improvement in reading and math.\r\n\r\nHow will LA Kids Rock! work?\r\n•\tLAKidsRock! will be multi-platform and can be played on the web browser or as a downloadable app (iOS, Android, Windows 8).\r\n•\tChildren will play fun reading and math games anywhere, anytime.\r\n•\tEvery child will receive a personalized learning program based on individual needs.\r\n•\tChildren will be encouraged to connect with their parents, grandparents and teachers.\r\n•\tLAKidsRock! will be fully compliant with COPPA (Children's Online Privacy Protection Act).\r\n\r\nHow will LA Kids Rock! mobilize the entire LA community?\r\n•\tThroughout the two months we will have a total of 12 special live events at various venues around Los Angeles. These live events will complement the online event and will help take LA Kids Rock! to the whole community. The live events will involve local school children playing learning games with community leaders.\r\n•\tIn addition to the live events, we will convert an old school bus into a mobile learning lab. This bus will be equipped with study desks and tablets. The bus will visit more than 100 schools, shopping malls and community centers over the two months.\r\n•\tParents and Grandparents will share the experience. They will see their child’s results and be able to play with him or her.\r\n•\tWe will work closely with teachers and help support them in their vital role. There will be a sub-section called LA Teachers Rock! where teachers will be honored. Teachers will be provided a special portal to view powerful learning analytics and reports.\r\n•\tWe will invite community role models and celebrities to use their privileged position to encourage and motivate the children.\r\n\r\nWhat about children who do not have access to the internet at home?\r\n•\tWe will work closely with schools (especially enrichment after school programs) and libraries to provide access to LA Kids Rock! outside of school hours.\r\n•\tBoth the 12 live sites and the mobile learning lab school bus will play an important role in assisting children without internet access at home.\r\n•\tChildren will also be able to use LA Kids Rock! at school.\r\n\r\nWhat about children from non-English backgrounds?\r\n•\tThere will be a special section for the more than 30% of Los Angeles children who are English language learners. This will assist children in their vocabulary and speaking skills.\r\n\r\nHow will the curriculum be chosen?\r\n•\tThe reading and math content will be closely aligned to Common Core State Standards.\r\n\r\nHow will LA Kids Rock! motivate children?\r\n•\tChildren will find the actual learning games highly engaging.\r\n•\tThere will be inbuilt game rewards designed to encourage optimal use.\r\n•\tChildren and schools will be entered into a draw for “money can’t buy” prizes. We are planning for 20 children and accompanying parents to attend an LA Lakers game along with a “meet the players” afterwards. There will also be three school prizes where key LA sport franchises will visit the winning schools.\r\n•\tLA Kids Rock! will make it easy for parents, grandparents and teachers to say “Great Job!” to children. We know this to be one of the most important motivators of all.\r\n\r\nHow will it impact the education indicator?\r\n•\tLA Kids Rock! will lift reading and math test scores\r\n•\tChildren will be more engaged and positive in their learning\r\n•\tLA Kids Rock! will support teachers in their vital role\r\n•\tLower high school dropout rates in years to come\r\n•\tBring the community together to focus on supporting children’s learning\r\n•\tDecrease the disparity between the education “haves” and “have-nots.”\r\n"
  budget explanation: "Expenses\r\n\r\nMarketing\r\n\tFlyers and postage to 2,942 elementary schools\t\t\t\t\t$2,650\r\n\tStickers (100,000)\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$2,800\r\nPosters (3,000)\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$1,900\r\n\tT-Shirts (1,000)\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$12,500\r\n\r\nPR Management\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$6,500\r\n\r\nTaking LA Kids Rock! to the community\r\n\tLive Venues\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$21,600\r\n\tMobile Learning Lab\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$27,500\r\n\tTablets and other technology (40 x $249)\t\t\t\t\t$9,960\t\t\t\t\t\t\r\n\r\nPrizes\r\n\tIndividual - Trip to LA Lakers match along with a special meet the players\t$18,000\r\nfor 20 children and 20 parents\r\n\r\n\tSchool - we will look to partner with key LA sport franchises to visit 3 schools\t*\r\nas part of their outreach programs.\r\n\r\n\r\nStaffing during event\r\n\tTwo permanent Skoolbo staff\t\t\t\t\t\tCovered by Skoolbo\r\n\tSix special event staff (126 people days)\t\t\t\t\t\t$24,570\r\n\r\n\r\nPost Reporting of LA Kids Rock!\r\nCreation of LA Kids Rock! documentary\t\t\t\t\t\t$3,800\r\n\tAuditing of LA Kids Rock! usage and improvement figures\t\t\t$5,200\r\n\r\nPlatform Creation\r\n\tContent Modification\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$3,400\r\n\tLos Angeles Learning World creation\t\t\t\t\t\t$7,800\r\n\tLA Kids Rock Theme song\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$1,900\r\n\tCloud Hosting Fees\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t$8,200\r\n\r\nTotal Expenses\t\t$158,280\r\n\r\nRevenue\r\nWe will not be seeking revenue from participants. We will however seek sponsorship partners and this will form the key aspect of the ongoing business model. Partnerships may come in the form of cash or in-kind. We anticipate an overall loss of $140,000 in 2013, whereas in 2014 we forecast a self sustaining break even and beyond model.\r\nSkoolbo commits to cover the additional losses beyond the $100,000 grant for 2013. If we are successful with partnerships in the lead-up to the 2013 event and the overall losses are less than $100,000 then we will return the balance to the Goldhirsh Foundation.\r\nWe are pleased to say that we have achieved a sustainable model going forward for our similar event in Singapore.\r\n\r\n* We are confident that we will form a partnership with a sport franchise and that this will be free of charge."
  description: "LA Kids Rock! will lift reading and math test scores\r\n“Thank you so much for this program. I have a young man in 4th grade who has a severe reading disability and SKOOLBO has been one of the programs he has taken to!!! We are so excited to see how much he has improved.  Thanks a million…” – A teacher from Florida.\r\n\r\nLearning pedagogies underpinning LA Kids Rock! include:\r\n•\tMake learning fun!\r\n•\tIndividualized, differentiated curriculum.\r\n•\tImmediate feedback and support.\r\n•\tFast paced efficient learning.\r\n•\tMulti-layered rewards and motivation mechanism.\r\n•\tReports and analytics for parents and teachers.\r\n•\tProvide many opportunities for positive affirmation.\r\n•\tBuild a culture of engagement and success for every child.\r\n\r\nChildren will be more engaged and positive in their learning\r\n“I have to say my students are “crazy” about Skoolbo. They have become so loud during the play as they shout when they win. – A teacher from Illinois.\r\n\r\n “Our children LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this app!” – a teacher from Maine.\r\n\r\nEngagement and success in learning are essential for creating sustained positive attitudes towards learning.\r\n\r\nLA Kids Rock! will support teachers in their vital role\r\n“One of the main challenges a teacher faces is providing differentiation to their struggling students and their advanced students. Skoolbo allows my students to work at a pace and challenge that is most appropriate for them.”  – A teacher from California.\r\nTeaching is difficult and teachers need as much support as they can get from the entire community. LA Kids Rock! will support teachers by:\r\n•\tProviding powerful learning analytics and reports.\r\n•\tDifferentiating learning through sophisticated, in-built algorithms.\r\n•\tCreating exciting learning environments which lead to less behavioral issues.\r\n•\tEngaging and including parents and wider famly members in the students’ achievements.\r\n•\tAlerting teachers to critical learning milestones in the student’s progression.\r\n\r\nLower high school dropout rates in years to come \r\n“For many students the dropping out process commences in elementary school. The two most consistent indicators of ultimate school dropout are early academic performance and students’ academic and social behaviour.” - The California Dropout Research Project.\r\n\r\nSuccess breeds success, conversely failure often leads to more failure. A happy, successful elementary education will result in a reduction of high school dropout rates.\r\n\r\nBring the community together to focus on supporting children’s learning\r\n•\tWe believe society as a whole needs to take greater ownership of education. Each and everyone of us has this responsibility.\r\n•\tLA Kids Rock! will connect parents, grandparents, teachers and community in one common purpose – supporting children’s learning.\r\n\r\nDecrease the disparity between the education “haves” and “have-nots” \r\n•\tLA Kids Rock! will be completely free of charge and accessible to every child regardless of economic circumstances."
  collaborators: "Skoolbo understands the critical importance of partnerships. Since launching in June 2012 Skoolbo has partnered with numerous organizations including:\r\n•\tMicrosoft\r\n•\tSamsung\r\n•\tPeace One Day\r\n•\tHarper Collins.\r\n\r\nWe have also been working with Auburn School District (Maine) on their Advantage 2014 project. The project aims to increase 3rd grade literacy and numeracy from 63% and 60% to 90% by the end of 2014.\r\n \r\nLA Kids Rock! will seek to partner with organizations who share our vision of helping every child succeed in learning. In particular:\r\n•\tLos Angeles school districts\r\n•\tLos Angeles Public Libraries\r\n•\tCommunity groups\r\n•\tLos Angeles sport franchises\r\n•\tCelebrities and community role models\r\n•\tTechnology partners\r\n•\tMedia partners."
  Organization Name: Skoolbo LTD
  description1: "Our dream is that every child learns to read and gains confidence with numbers... these are life's essentials. We believe technology can dramatically help and that the best way to do it is to make it lots of fun and to make it free! We are committed to making great learning resources accessible to every child.\r\n\r\nPrior to founding Skoolbo in 2010, Shane Hill also founded Mathletics and World Math Day. These programs have seen millions of children from around the world participate in fun learning events and they have demonstrated highly rapid improvement.\r\n\r\nOver the last three years Skoolbo has created the world's largest educational game. Our focus is literacy and numeracy for 4 to 10 year olds. Shortly we will be adding 26 languages to the Skoolbo platform.\r\n\r\nSkoolbo was invited to be part of the Global Social Innovators Accelerator program, a sub-strand of the Global Social Innovators Forum 2012 (GSIF). GSIF is the foremost forum on social enterprise and innovation in Asia and it aims to create a community of change-makers for sustainable and meaningful impact.\r\n\r\nIn 2012, Skoolbo organized an online educational event named Smartest Singapore for Singapore primary school children. The event partners were Samsung, Microsoft, Collins, the Media Development Authority of Singapore, and several regional and local businesses.  Within one month, children from 118 primary schools in Singapore answered correctly a total of 2,725,288 questions on Smartest Singapore. There was an average improvement of 42.6% among children who played more than 100 games.\r\n\r\nIn February 2013, Shane Hill was honored with the Social Innovation Leadership Award at World CSR Congress and Awards 2013 in Mumbai, India. This is the most prestigious award an individual can receive for contribution in Corporate Social Responsibility. The World CSR Congress brings over 130 countries under one roof to unite and celebrate leadership in building a better society and making a better world.\r\n \r\nIn March 2013, Shane Hill was invited to speak at the Global Education & Skills Forum (GESF), Dubai. Shane co-presented with Senator David Coltart, Minister of Education, Zimbabwe and Dr. Matthew Kam, Senior Technology Strategist, American Institutes for Research, Washington D.C., in a session titled “Smarter Content, Better Learning”. The GESF aimed to explore how governments and the private sector can work together to create real, sustainable and scalable education change in developing countries at global and local levels. The GESF was keynoted by Bill Clinton and attended by more than fifty Heads of State / Education Ministers.\r\n  \r\nIn September 2013 Skoolbo will be hosting FriendOurWorld.org which is a collaboration with Peace One Day and Microsoft. Children from across the world will unite and play friendship games of geography, languages and culture on the Skoolbo platform. We anticipate this will be one of the largest educational events ever held.\r\n"
  description3: "We usually define our competition as those things that compete for children’s spare time. In particular, computer games and television. We strive hard to have children voluntarily choose to play learning games over traditional, non-productive, straight computer games or television. It’s a difficult challenge in today’s instant gratification, entertainment orientated world.\r\n\r\nIn the more traditional sense of competition we fit within the eLearning publishers domain. We have already formed a partnership with Harper Collins (one of the world’s largest educational publishers) and have had discussions with many others within the field. We are extremely open to partnerships and pride ourselves on having excellent relationships with these companies.\r\n\r\nAlthough we are a young company we have already formed partnerships with major companies such as Microsoft and Samsung, as well as the non government organization Peace One Day.\r\n\r\n Smartest Singapore Partnership\r\n“Congratulations to Skoolbo on this hugely successful competition. Competition is an interesting concept; we all have a deep innate desire to be the best we can be. But we have choice, we can stay in our safe zone, never putting ourselves out there, never risking being beaten to prizes by somebody else as we are afraid that we may fail. But if we don’t try, we will never succeed. Anyone who challenges himself to be the best that they can be has never been a failure. Success comes simply through tries, through having a go.  Sometimes we learn our greatest lessons in life from giving something our best shot. We will move on to greater things simply as a result of the experience we have tried our hardest.” – Karen Jamieson (Harper Collins)\r\n\r\nFriendOurWorld.org Partnership\r\n\"Friendship is a powerful tool to unite individuals - classmates, families, and communities, in the name of peace on Peace Day 21 September. This is why I'm delighted to announce this new initiative with Skoolbo and Microsoft.” - Jeremy Gilley (Peace One Day Founder)\r\n\r\n“It’s a great pleasure and honor to be part of the Friend our World initiative. Microsoft strongly believes that technology in the classroom can make a difference in the lives of teachers and students enabling them to collaborate, develop critical thinking skills and connect to the world around them, Anytime – Anywhere.” - Pascal van den Nieuwendijk (Director, Public & Private Alliances, Asia Pacific, Microsoft)"
  vision: "Our vision for 2050 is a Los Angeles where every child has the opportunity to reach his or her potential. It will be a society where educational outcomes are not pre-determined by zip code or race. Education of our children will be valued as the highest of all society’s priorities. It will be prosperous, cohesive and innovative where Angelenos are employed in ways that fully utilize their considerable skills and passion. We are convinced this is within our power, however it will not occur naturally.\r\n\r\nWe thank the Goldhirsh Foundation for this important initiative."
  EIN: 42-1774453
  Tax Status: For profit organization
  about_you: 'Los Angeles, California'
  Does your project impact Los Angeles County?: 'yes'
What is your idea and how will it impact your indicator?: "<p>We want to end the cycle of underachievement and prove that LA kids really can “ROCK” in their learning!</p>\n\n\n<p><i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will be an online extravaganza for elementary students to come together in fun reading and math games. <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will take place from 15 October to 15 December, 2013.</p>\n\n\n<p>We are passionate in our belief that every child can learn to read and gain confidence with numbers. We also believe firmly in the African proverb “It takes a village to raise a child.” <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will mobilize community role models and celebrities to help motivate the children. We need everyone to play their part to help children love learning and reach their potential.</p>\n\n\n<p><i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will be completely free of charge for the more than 1.2 million elementary school children in the Greater Los Angeles Area (Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino, Riverside and Ventura counties). We expect more than 100,000 children will take part.</p>\n\n\n<p><i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will be based on two fundamental premises:<br>\n\n\n1)\tChildren do best when learning is fun.<br>\n\n\n2)\tPositive affirmation is essential.</p>\n\n\n<p>We will use a specially customized version of the Skoolbo eLearning platform. Skoolbo is the largest ever educational game and since its launch in June 2012, has been attracting both rapid growth and extremely high levels of improvement in reading and math.</p>\n\n\n<b><p>How will <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> work?</b><br>\n\n\n*\t<i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will be multiplatform and can be played on the web browser or as a downloadable app (iOS, Android, Windows 8).<br>\n\n\n*\tChildren will play fun reading and math games anywhere, anytime.<br>\n\n\n*\tEvery child will receive a personalized learning program based on individual needs.<br>\n\n\n*\tChildren will be encouraged to connect with their parents, grandparents and teachers.<br>\n\n\n*\t<i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will be fully compliant with COPPA (Children's Online Privacy Protection Act).</p>\n\n\n<p><b>How will <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> mobilize the entire LA community?</b><br>\n\n\n*\tThroughout the two months we will have a total of 12 special live events at various venues around Los Angeles. These live events will complement the online event and will help take <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> to the whole community. The live events will involve local school children playing learning games with community leaders.<br>\n\n\n*\tIn addition to the live events, we will convert an old school bus into a mobile learning lab. This bus will be equipped with study desks and tablets. The bus will visit more than 100 schools, shopping malls and community centers over the two months.<br>\n\n\n*\tParents and Grandparents will share the experience. They will see their child’s results and be able to play with him or her.<br>\n\n\n*\tWe will work closely with teachers and help support them in their vital role. There will be a subsection called <i>LA Teachers Rock!</i> where teachers will be honored. Teachers will be provided a special portal to view powerful learning analytics and reports.<br>\n\n\n*\tWe will invite community role models and celebrities to use their privileged position to encourage and motivate the children.</p>\n\n\n<p><b>What about children who do not have access to the internet at home?</b><br>\n\n\n*\tWe will work closely with schools (especially enrichment after school programs) and libraries to provide access to <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> outside of school hours.<br>\n\n\n*\tBoth the 12 live sites and the mobile learning lab school bus will play an important role in assisting children without internet access at home.<br>\n\n\n*\tChildren will also be able to use <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> at school.</p>\n\n\n<p><b>What about children from nonEnglish backgrounds?</b><br>\n\n\n*\tThere will be a special section for the more than 30% of Los Angeles children who are English language learners. This will assist children in their vocabulary and speaking skills.</p>\n\n\n<p><b>How will the curriculum be chosen?</b><br>\n\n\n*\tThe reading and math content will be closely aligned to Common Core State Standards.</p>\n\n\n<p><b>How will it impact the education indicator?</b><br>\n\n\n*\t<i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will lift reading and math test scores.<br>\n\n\n*\tChildren will be more engaged and positive in their learning.<br>\n\n\n*\t<i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will support teachers in their vital role.<br>\n\n\n*\tLower high school dropout rates in years to come.<br>\n\n\n*\tBring the community together to focus on supporting children’s learning.<br>\n\n\n*\tDecrease the disparity between the education “<i>haves</i>” and “<i>havenots.</i>”</p>"
What are some of your organization’s most important achievements to date?: >-
  <p>Our dream is that every child learns to read and gains confidence with
  numbers... these are life's essentials. We believe technology can dramatically
  help and that the best way to do it is to make it lots of fun and to make it
  free! We are committed to making great learning resources accessible to every
  child.<br><br>



  Prior to founding Skoolbo in 2010, Shane Hill also founded Mathletics and
  World Math Day. These programs have seen millions of children from around the
  world participate in fun learning events and they have demonstrated highly
  rapid improvement.<br><br>



  Over the last three years Skoolbo has created the world's largest educational
  game. Our focus is literacy and numeracy for 4 to 10 year olds. Shortly we
  will be adding 26 languages to the Skoolbo platform.<br><br>



  Skoolbo was invited to be part of the Global Social Innovators Accelerator
  program, a substrand of the Global Social Innovators Forum 2012 (GSIF). GSIF
  is the foremost forum on social enterprise and innovation in Asia and it aims
  to create a community of changemakers for sustainable and meaningful impact.



  In 2012, Skoolbo organized an online educational event named Smartest
  Singapore for Singapore primary school children. The event partners were
  Samsung, Microsoft, Collins, and several regional and local businesses. 
  Within one month, children from 118 primary schools correctly answered a total
  of 2,725,288 questions. There was an average improvement of 42.6% among
  children who played more than 100 games.<br><br>



  In February 2013, Shane Hill was honored with the Social Innovation Leadership
  Award at World CSR Congress and Awards 2013 in Mumbai, India. This is the most
  prestigious award an individual can receive for contribution in Corporate
  Social Responsibility. The World CSR Congress brings over 130 countries under
  one roof to unite and celebrate leadership in building a better society and
  making a better world.<br><br>



  In March 2013, Shane Hill was invited to speak at the Global Education &
  Skills Forum (GESF), Dubai. Shane copresented with Senator David Coltart,
  Minister of Education, Zimbabwe and Dr. Matthew Kam, Senior Technology
  Strategist, American Institutes for Research, Washington D.C., in a session
  titled “Smarter Content, Better Learning”. The GESF aimed to explore how
  governments and the private sector can work together to create real,
  sustainable and scalable education change in developing countries at global
  and local levels. The GESF was keynoted by Bill Clinton and attended by more
  than fifty Heads of State / Education Ministers.<br><br>



  In September 2013 Skoolbo will be hosting FriendOurWorld.org which is a
  collaboration with Peace One Day and Microsoft. Children from across the world
  will unite and play friendship games of geography, languages and culture on
  the Skoolbo platform. We anticipate this will be one of the largest
  educational events ever held.</p>
Please identify any partners or collaborators who will work with you on this project.: "<p>Skoolbo understands the critical importance of partnerships. Since launching in June 2012 we have partnered with organizations including:<br>\n\n\n*\tMicrosoft<br>\n\n\n*\tSamsung<br>\n\n\n*\tPeace One Day<br>\n\n\n*\tHarper Collins.<br><br>\n\n\nWe have also been working with Auburn School District (Maine) on their Advantage 2014 project. The project aims to increase 3rd grade literacy and numeracy from 63% and 60% respectively to 90% by the end of 2014.<br><br>\n\n\nFor <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> we will seek to partner with organizations who share our vision of helping every child succeed in learning. In particular:<br>\n\n\n*\tSchool districts<br>\n\n\n*\tPublic Libraries<br>\n\n\n*\tCommunity groups<br>\n\n\n*\tSport franchises<br>\n\n\n*\tTechnology providers<br>\n\n\n*\tMedia companies.<br>"
Please explain how you will evaluate your project. How will you measure success?: "<p><i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will measure itself on a number of short and long term metrics.<br><br>\n\n\n\n\n\n<b>Phase 1 — 2013</b>      (The initial <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> 2013 event)<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tTotal Participants</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: Hundred thousand children in Greater Los Angeles Area.<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tTotal Correct Answers</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: 50 million correct answers in reading and math.<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tTotal Learning Time</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: A quarter of million learning hours.<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tLearning Improvement</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: Average improvement in reading and math greater than 20%.<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tSustainable Ongoing Business Model for <i>LA Kids Rock!</i></b><br>\n\n\nA fundamental goal of <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> is to develop a self sustaining business model where every child can participate freely.<br><br><br>\n\n\n<b>Phase 2 — 2014 and Beyond</b>      (Sustainable Ongoing <i>LA Kids Rock!</i>)<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tTotal Participants</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: One million children in Greater Los Angeles Area by 2015.<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tTest Scores</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: Los Angeles Unified School district to achieve the benchmark 800 in the overall Academic Performance Index (API) by 2017.*<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tReduce Disparity</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: By 2017 achieve a 30% reduction in disparity levels between both African American and Latino students with White students. In 2011 the API gap between White and African American was 186, while for White and Latino it was 163.<br><br>\n\n\n<b>*\tGraduation Rates</b><br>\n\n\nTarget: By 2024 achieve 85% high school graduation rate for LAUSD.<br><br>\n\n\nIn addition to the above quantitative metrics we will be seeking periodic feedback from teachers, parents and students.<br><br>\n\n\nWe will work with a university or research agency (eg American Institutes for Research) to study our data and help determine ways to further improve.<br><br><br>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n* <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> is inclusive and will be pitched at all elementary children within the Greater Los Angeles Area (Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino, Riverside and Ventura counties). For measurement purposes we will use data from LAUSD — the largest school district.</p>"
How will your project benefit Los Angeles? Please be specific.: "<i><b>LA Kids Rock!</i> will lift reading and math test scores</b><br>\n\n\n“<i>Thank you so much for this program. I have a young man in 4th grade who has a severe reading disability and Skoolbo has been one of the programs he has taken to!!! We are so excited to see how much he has improved.  Thanks a million…</i>” — A teacher from Florida.<br>\n\n\n<br>Learning pedagogies underpinning <i>LA Kids Rock!</i> include:<br>\n\n\n*\tMake learning fun!<br>\n\n\n*\tIndividualized, differentiated curriculum.<br>\n\n\n*\tImmediate feedback and support.<br>\n\n\n*\tFast paced efficient learning.<br>\n\n\n*\tMultilayered rewards and motivation mechanism.<br>\n\n\n*\tReports and analytics for parents and teachers.<br>\n\n\n*\tProvide many opportunities for positive affirmation.<br>\n\n\n<br><b>Children will be more engaged and positive in their learning</b><br>\n\n\n“<i>Our children LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this app!</i>” — a teacher from Maine.<br>\n\n\n<br>Engagement and success in learning are essential for creating sustained positive attitudes towards learning.<br>\n\n\n<br><b><i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will support teachers in their vital role</b><br>\n\n\n“<i>One of the main challenges a teacher faces is providing differentiation to their struggling students and their advanced students. Skoolbo allows my students to work at a pace and challenge that is most appropriate for them.</i>”  — A teacher from California.<br><br><i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will support teachers by:<br>\n\n\n*\tProviding powerful learning analytics and reports.<br>\n\n\n*\tDifferentiating learning through sophisticated, inbuilt algorithms.<br>\n\n\n*\tCreating exciting learning environments which lead to less behavioral issues.<br>\n\n\n*\tEngaging and including parents and wider family members in the students’ achievements.<br>\n\n\n*\tAlerting teachers to critical learning milestones in the student’s progression.<br>\n\n\n<br><b>Lower high school dropout rates in years to come</b><br>\n\n\n“<i>For many students the dropping out process commences in elementary school. The two most consistent indicators of ultimate school dropout are early academic performance and students’ academic and social behavior.</i>”  The California Dropout Research Project.<br><br>\n\n\nSuccess breeds success, conversely failure often leads to more failure. A happy, successful elementary education will result in a reduction of high school dropout rates.<br>\n\n\n<br><b>Bring the community together to focus on supporting children’s learning</b><br>\n\n\n*\tWe believe society as a whole needs to take greater ownership of education. Each and everyone of us has this responsibility.<br>\n\n\n*\t<i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will connect parents, grandparents, teachers and community in one common purpose — supporting children’s learning.<br>\n\n\n<br><b>Decrease the disparity between the education “<i>haves</i>” and “<i>havenots</i>”</b><br>*\t<i>LA Kids Rock!</i> will be completely free of charge and accessible to every child regardless of economic circumstances.</p>"
What would success look like in the year 2050 regarding your indicator?: >-
  <p>Our vision for 2050 is a Los Angeles where every child has the opportunity
  to reach his or her potential. It will be a society where educational outcomes
  are not predetermined by zip code or race. Education of our children will be
  valued as the highest of all society’s priorities. It will be prosperous,
  cohesive and innovative where Angelenos are employed in ways that fully
  utilize their considerable skills and passion. We are convinced this is within
  our power, however it will not occur naturally.</p>






  <p>We thank the Goldhirsh Foundation for this important initiative.</p>
youtube_video_identifier: Jw8-KCURHUA

---
